METADATA:
Source: Economist
Date: 2025-02-25
Categories: Infrastructure
Title: THE TELEGRAM The Economist February 22nd 2025 Australia the lonely Australia has long relied on A...
ID: 178

CONTENT:
THE TELEGRAM The Economist February 22nd 2025 Australia the lonely Australia has long relied on America for its security and China for its prosperity. Those twin pillars are wobbling A rRALIANS HAVE felt lucky but anxious since the first colo- nists waded ashore, over two centuries ago. An edge of insecu- rity endured even as Australia became prosperous, safe and en- vied: a liberal democracy with a resource-rich continent to itself, guarded by a deep blue moat on the bottom of the world. Today, Australian fears are acute, for two pillars supporting its modern rise—its defence alliance with America and its trade with China— are wobbling. For all that, after a week Down Under talking to business, political and national-security bigwigs, [he lelegram has a hunch that Australian angst gives the country a head start. Today, every ally of America has cause to be alarmed by Presi- dent Donald Trump. These are scary times for countries that trade with China, too. In many industries, selling to China is becoming harder, for its growth is slowing, and its leaders are bent on achiev- ing greater self-reliance. At the same time, China’s rulers are deter- mined to dominate important export markets, and ready to use their economic might to bully any country that stands in the way. It now looks oddly lucky that Australia has been brooding over its reliance on America and China for some time, while many West- erm powers, notably in Europe, slumbered complacently. A fine history of Australian foreign policy by the late Allan Gyngell, a diplomat and intelligence analyst, is bluntly called “Fear of Abandonment: Australia in the world since 1942”. It de- scribes the shock felt when Britain, the imperial mother country, quit Asia and became a midsize European power. Australia duly sought a security alliance with America, crafting Washington- friendly arguments about why it is a partner that pulls its weight. In the 1960s, Gyngell relates, political leaders who sent Australian troops to Vietnam to fight alongside American forces talked of paying the premium on an “insurance policy”. A half-century later, Trump-pleasing lines are being polished in Canberra, the quiet country town that serves as national capital. Australia recently made a $500m contribution to support Ameri- ca’s submarine-building industry. That was a down-payment on AUKUS, a scheme binding together America, Australia and Britain in an alliance to counter and deter Chinese naval power in the In- do-Pacific for decades to come. Agreed with the Biden administra- tion, the plan is slated to cost up to $228bn over its lifetime. It calls for Australia and Britain to jointly design and build advanced nuc- lear-powered submarines, for delivery to Australia in the early 2040s. As an interim step, Australia is to buy a fleet of American- made submarines. It is also spending billions of dollars upgrading a naval base near the western city of Perth, offering American and British submarines stealthy access to the Indian Ocean. With Mr Trump in the White House, there is talk in Canberra of “a period of triage”. Officials must assess urgent risks, such as Mr Trump’s willingness to slap tariffs on allies. In early contacts, Australian leaders have reminded Mr Trump and his team that the trade balance between their countries has run in America’s favour since the Truman era. Then comes the longer-term puzzle of what the Trump administration might actually want from Australia when it comes to confronting China. A right-of-centre member of parliament reports conversations with Republicans in Washing- ton, who told him that America “will need guarantees from us” that any American submarines sold to Australia will be made available in the event of a US-led fight with China over Taiwan. Against that, officials must weigh comments from Mr Trump and some of his aides, sounding scornful about Taiwan’s chances of surviving a Chinese attack. The words of Mr Trump's defence sec- retary, Pete Hegseth, are parsed like those of a prophet. Mr Heg- seth told his Australian counterpart that Mr [rump is “supportive” of AUKUS. But work on the American submarines sought by Aus- tralia is behind schedule. When asked if the first would be ready for sale to Australia, Mr Hegseth replied only: “We sure hope so.” In a week-long straw poll, a majority of well-placed Australians admit to doubts that AUKUS will happen as planned. Several ven- ture that America will want to use the submarine base near Perth, at least. Even if Mr ‘Irump declines to defend Taiwan, it is suggest- ed, America will surely have an abiding interest in countering Chi- nese hegemony in the sea lanes of the Indo-Pacific. For now Aus- tralia is pitching itself to the Trump administration as a force mul- tiplier. If allies jointly help America rebuild its defence-industrial base, the West can compete with China’s advantages of scale. If your biggest market turns hostile That submarine base sits within view of gleaming corporate sky- scrapers in Perth, built with vast sums earned sending ships to China laden with iron ore, coal, wool, food and other commod- ities. Even so, the risks of economic dependency are acknowl- edged. Memories are fresh of economic boycotts used to punish a previous Australian government for challenging China over its handling of the covid-19 pandemic and other issues. Chinese de- mand for iron ore could fall by 40% in the next 30 years, as urban- isation slows and China recycles more steel, says Huw McKay of Australian National University. A politician briefed by the security services talks of “constant” Chinese espionage and cyber-attacks on critical infrastructure. In Canberra, plans are afoot. Ties with Japan, India and other China-sceptical neighbours are deepening. There is little hope of rallying South-East Asian governments, for they prefer to accom- modate China. For its part, Australia will pick its battles with Chi- na, calling out egregious Chinese actions, but discreetly. [here is talk of deterring China while engaging economically. The West's aim should be to make war too costly, and peace too valuable. Australia has reasons to be anxious. At least it is thinking about survival in a lonelier world. Time for other countries to catch up. & The Economist February 22nd 2025 ae | Sa ] a 7 Sa [Sa hange management Ee a ~~ i \/ What will Elon Musk’s DOGE mean for Accenture, McKinsey and their rivals? T SHOULD BE a management consul- tant’s dream. The organisation is immense. Bloat is a problem. And the new boss is eager to shake things up. President Donald Trump and his disrupter-in-chief, Elon Musk, have already begun hacking away at America’s federal bureaucracy. Mr Musk’s Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) has set itself the target of cutting government spending by a colossal $2trn. Foran industry that helps organisations remake themselves, that seems like an opportunity like no other. Yet consulting firms, which have come to rely on the federal government for a growing share of fees, are looking on nervously. None of them appear to have a seat at Mr Musk’s table. hey could instead be on the menu. Consultants have a long history of cashing in on government projects. McKinsey, the world’s most prestigious strategy adviser, at least by its own estima- tion, helped Dwight Eisenhower establish the post of White House chief of staff in 1953 and designed NASA’s first organisa- tional structure in 1958. By 1977 Jimmy Carter was grumbling that the federal bureaucracy was employing consulting firms “excessively, unnecessarily and im- properly”. That year Booz Allen Hamilton, a consultancy, was paid $320,000 ($1.7m at today's prices) by the Department of Agri- culture to figure out how many chickens its inspectors should examine per minute. 56 Xi Jinping makes nice with tech 57 The EU trims red tape 58 China's surprising biotech firms 59 Bartleby: Managing by walking around 60 Schumpeter: The anti-Trump Oscars 55 1 J i i ro J r i a F Fr Fo ; Fo such a contract would look like chump change these days. The same firm received $9bn from the federal bureaucracy in the most recent fiscal year, according to gov- ernment data. Add in the other top govern- ment consultancies—Accenture, BCG, De- loitte, EY, Guidehouse (formerly part of PWC), KPMG and McKinsey—and the fie- ure exceeds $18bn, up from just $5bn a de- cade before (see charts on next page). The importance of America’s govern- ment for consulting revenue varies across these firms. Booz Allen Hamilton, which parted ways with its private-sector consult- ing business in 2008, is nearly entirely reliant on the public sector. McKinsey, whose work for the federal goverment slowed after its association with opioid manufacturers tarnished its reputation, makes less than 1% of its global revenue from federal contracts. Across the firms we examined, though, the federal government accounted for about 8% of total revenue last year. There is no bigger single client. Some contracts are enormous. EY has made nearly $70m since 2020 supporting a reform plan at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. BCG has been allocated $380m since 2022 by the Defence Health Agency, which provides medical care to the armed forces, as part of an imitiative called “Workforce 3.0”. Accenture has received $700m from the >> 56 Business Department of Education since 2019 to build and manage a website, mobile app and virtual assistant for student aid. The scale of spending partly reflects the magnitude of the mess. America’s federal government collects around 140bn forms a year, most of which are still paper- based. Agencies struggle to compete with the private sector for talented techies to help change that. [he growth in govern- ment consulting over the past decade has been driven largely by digitisation efforts, notes Fiona Czerniawska of Source Global Research, which tracks the industry. Could that offer some protection from Mr Musk’s woodchipper? The executive order establishing DOGE tasks it with modernising the government's technology. Ron Ash, who oversees Accenture’s federal-government business, expects that agencies will be pressed to automate fast- er. Firms such as his will be ready to help. The problem, however, is that DOGE and the consultants come from very differ- ent worlds. Take Mr Musk’s methods. He has been brutal and abrupt, and made little effort to engage those affected. Consulting firms have spent years trying to distance themselves from that type of approach, says Tom Rodenhauser of Kennedy Intelli- gence, another industry analyst. Protesters have gathered outside the showrooms of Tesla, Mr Musk’s carmaker, to protest against his cuts. Consultants will be loth to attract such attention. For his part, Mr Musk may see consul- tants not as the solution, but part of the problem. Many of them are frustrated with how little they have been able to achieve in government compared with their private- sector efforts, says Max Stier, head of the Partnership for Public Service, a non-profit Which works to improve government. Bureaucratic inertia and political med- dling are partly to blame. But Mr Musk may conclude that, having tried for so long, consultants are not up to the task. He may instead be drawn to options from his own sphere. Palantir, an analytics firm chaired by Peter Thiel, who worked Boozing with Mr Musk at PayPal, has gained a foot- hold in the Department of Defence and is spreading quickly across the federal gov- ernment. Among other things, it helps organisations feed their data into artificial- intelligence (AI) tools. In the final quarter of 2024 its revenue from America’s govern- ment grew by 45% year on year. Its share price has been on a remarkable ride, more than doubling since Mr lrump’s election in November. Booz Allen Hamilton’s has fallen by a third. Unlike most other software providers, Palantir embeds teams of engineers with its clients to help them make use of its technology. For now, it works on many projects alongside firms such as Accenture and Deloitte. But some also view it as a potential competitor to the big consultan- cies, particularly when it comes to AI. Mr Thiel has described conventional consult- ing as a “total racket”. The Trump administration poses another conundrum for the consulting industry. Besides costs, officials also want to strip the government of wokery. Diversi- ty, equity and inclusion (DEI) efforts are a particular target. An executive order issued last month bans federal contractors from operating any programmes “promoting DEI that violate any applicable federal anti-discrimination laws”. That has put the big consultancies, which have been vocal champions of DEI, in an awkward spot. Some have remained defiant. McKinsey has insisted that it will continue its pursuit of a “diverse meritocracy’. Yet it has little to lose. Other firms have quickly sought to placate the new administration. Accenture has informed staff it will be “sunsetting” its diversity goals. Deloitte’s American branch has told those working with the federal government to remove their pronouns from their email signatures. Such moves have ruffled employees, and may irk private-sector clients that have been preached to on the merits of DEI. Consulting bosses will have to decide what price they are willing to pay to keep their biggest client happy. & United States, federal payments to consulting firms, top eight, $bn Fiscal years ending September 30th Total 20 15 = . us 5 0 2008) 10 12 4 1G 1S 20 22) 24 Sources: Kennedy Intelligence; government stallstics; [he [ conomist By firm, 2024 0 2 ‘4 6 8 10 Booz Allen Hamilton Accenture Deloitte Guidehouse Ey KPMG BCG McKinsey The Economist February 22nd 2025 Business in China Rehabilitation HONG KONG Xi Jinping is making nice with entrepreneurs Co COMMUNIST PARTY has a his- tory of purging and then welcoming back senior officials. Deng Xiaoping was purged three times before leading the country out of Maoism in the late 1970s. Some cadres are welcomed back years after their death. Jack Ma, Alibaba’s foun- der, endured the modern version of a purge in 2020. The initial public offering (IPO) of his fintech company, Ant Group, was can- celled. Alibaba was probed shortly there- after and handed a record fine. Mr Ma withdrew from public life. Now, however, he seems to be welcome once again. On February 17th Mr Ma along with a handful of other entrepreneurs met at a symposium in Beijing with Xi Jinping, China’s supreme leader. Many see this as Mr Ma’s rescue from the wilderness—and a sign that, after a prolonged crackdown, private-sector tech is back in favour. It certainly has the makings of the most lucrative rehabilitation of all time. On Feb- ruary 14th Alibaba’s share price rose by 6.2% on rumours of the symposium, add- ing roughly $18bn to its market value. Those of Tencent and Xiaomi, two other large tech firms, rose by 7%. That comes on top of a rally in recent weeks. Shares in Hang Seng Tech, an index of the 30 largest technology companies listed in Hong Kong, have risen by 23% in the past month; those in Alibaba have surged by over 50%. Is a revival in private-sector sentiment at last under way? In large part the rally has been prompt- ed by DeepSeek, a Chinese artificial-intel- ligence (AI) firm that has managed to keep up with Silicon Valley even without an am- ple supply of American chips. Analysts at Bank of America have compared it to Ali- baba’s IPO in New York in 2014, which caused a boom in innovation at consumer- internet firms. DeepSeek, they think, could have a similar effect. Many companies are already adopting DeepSeek’s model. lencent, an internet and gaming group, is said to be testing it in Weixin, an application that offers messag- ing, payments, shopping and entertain- ment services, in the hope of creating an AI “super app’. AI could also boost demand for cloud-services providers, such as Aliba- ba, Huawei and lencent. They, in turn, will have to invest more in building server farms, benefiting the suppliers of AI data- centre components. Alibaba is also report- edly working with Apple, an American >> The Economist February 22nd 2025 tech giant, to inject AI capabilities into the iPhones sold in China. Yet despite all that, wider sentiment has still been weak. The Business Confidence Index, a monthly survey of more than 300 senior executives at corporations across China, showed slight improvements in Jan- uary. But several important components of the index, such as the outlook for cor- porate financing and inventory, are still contracting. Moreover, that same month the compilers of an index at Cheung Kong Graduate School of Business in Beijing concluded that “fairly significant levels of instability continue to inhibit China's business sphere’. That helps explain Mr Xi’s appearance at the symposium. According to reports of the meeting, he underlined the importance of the private sector for China’s economy and acknowledged some of the problems facing it. Mr Xi’s time in power has been an experiment in how best to guide entrepre- neurs while also limiting their influence over policymaking and society. Senior offi- cials have never managed to find a com- fortable balance. Between 2013 and 2019 the biggest companies dominated invest- ment as well as many areas of economic growth, putting officials in the passenger seat of development. The crackdown in 2020 reversed things sharply, wiping around $2trn off the value of China’s stockmarkets in the process. More recently the party has sought to guide entrepreneurs without extinguishing their innovation. The result has been an in- tentional blurring of the lines between private and state enterprise. This works for some companies such as Huawei, a tele- coms giant; Cambricon, a chip designer; and iflylech, an AI company. But the result is often a murky hybrid. Academics have labelled it “party-state capitalism”. Yr Jack's back Given all this, the love-in can only do so much to restore sentiment. Chinese priv- ate-sector elites want more than sympo- siums. Big problems afflict their compa- nies. For example: when, asks a Hong Kong-based venture capitalist, might regu- lators loosen their control of IPOs? Since the crackdown, approval processes for list- ing overseas have been introduced. Start- ups such as Shein, a fast-fashion firm, have been forced to seek informal approval from Chinese regulators on national-secu- rity grounds. The securities watchdog has taken it upon itself to manage the listing expectations for some companies, report- edly halting the IPo in Hong Kong of a tea- and-ice-cream chain last year because val- uations were too low. A snarl-up of other problems shows no sion of abating. Rather like many tech firms, the financial system has also be- come a public-private hybrid. China's ven- ture-capital and private-equity industries have been permeated by the state. For many startups state capital, with its irrec- oncilably different goals from the private version, has become the main form of funding. Businessmen once laughed off the influence of Communist Party cells in private firms, which have been around for ages. Yet over the past five years these cells have amassed much more power. There are few signs that this trend will reverse. In some quarters the return of Mr Ma has been portrayed as a big win for the private sector—or even a concession to it. But it might also be seen as a victory lap for Mr Xi. Over the past five years China’s en- trepreneurs have become much more sub- servient to the Communist Party. [hey must play by Mr Xi’s rules or face the con- sequences. The symposium is a confirma- tion that China’s once-mighty entrepre- neurs have fallen into line. & Business 5/7 Red tape in Europe Clearing the thicket BRUSSELS While others wield chainsaws, the EU reaches for pruning shears F RED TAPE could be said to have a spiri- tual home, it would be the corridors of the European Commission in Brussels. The beating heart of the “regulatory super- power” that is the EU, it is there that the rules which guide how business is done in the 27 member states are made. The EU produced nearly 14,000 legal acts between 2019 and 2024. Perhaps not coincidentally the bloc’s economy has stalled. Bosses gripe about spending more time filling forms than filing patents. A plan to lessen their burden is expected to be released on February 26th. Hopes for radical deregula- tion, however, will have to wait. Everybody agrees a dose of simplifica- tion is needed. That was one of the mes- sages from a recent report by Mario Draghi, a former Italian prime minister, about how to stop European businesses falling behind international rivals. Each year European firms spend about €15obn ($156bn) on administrative costs. The com- mission wants to cut that by a quarter over- all and by even more for small businesses. ‘lo achieve this, cumbersome edicts will be made easier to comply with. That in- cludes those that demand firms disclose their inner workings—whether goods were sourced ethically or in an environmentally sound way, say. At least three flagship laws will be watered down into one “omnibus” law, with the hope of cutting reporting re- quirements for firms. Several more “omni- bus” laws are expected this year. While the likes of Argentina, America and even India—whose “license raj” bu- reaucrats rival Europe’s in their passion for regulation—are slashing red tape willy-nil- ly, the EU is taking a more measured ap- proach. [he commissioner in charge, Val- dis Dombrovskis, is not the chainsaw- wielding type. Europe “needs to maintain its high environmental and social stan- dards”, he says. The preferred term for what is happening is “simplification” and not the more radical “deregulation”. That is perhaps to spare the blushes of those who first suggested the edicts—of- ten the same people who are now “simpli- fying” them. For whereas politicians else- Where are scrapping decades-old laws, some of the regulations Europe is amend- ing are so fresh they have not yet fully en- tered into force. Mr Dombrovskis admits a “protracted period of legislation” in recent years piled too much on to businesses. In particular, rules that were meant to apply >> 58 Business only to big companies were in effect ap- plied to their (smaller) suppliers. Amending already-agreed texts will take time. The simplification push will need the approval of the European Parlia- ment and the bloc’s member states. Some will take convincing. “There is no impact assessment that shows these texts are harmful to European competitiveness,” ar- gues Pascal Canfin, a French liberal MEP who backed the original legislation. Businesses might be disappointed; many had been lobbying for a more com- plete overhaul. But some may find solace in the EU’s new Clean Industrial Deal, also due to be unveiled on the same day, in which the commission will suggest sops such as subsidised energy. If business can’t be made simpler, it can at least be made more profitable. Chinese biotech In rude health It’s not just AI. China’s medicines are surprising the world, too EYTRUDA, A CANCER medicine, ranks Nee the most lucrative drugs ever sold. Since its launch in 2014 it has raked in more than $130bn in sales for Merck, its American maker, including $29.5bn last year. In September last year an experimen- tal drug did what none had done before. In late-stage trials for non-small cell lung cancer, it nearly doubled the time patients lived without the disease getting worse— to 11.1 months, compared with 5.8 months for Keytruda. The results were stunning. 50 too was the nationality of the biotech company be- hind them. Akeso is Chinese. In recent months China’s progress in ar- tificial intelligence has stunned the world. A quieter yet equally significant shift is un- Licence to pill Active drugs in development by country of company headquarters, % 100 Other 80 60 | cal —e 40 | United 20 | States 0 a pn a np ee neo emg 2010 12 14 IG 18 20 8 22 24 Sources: Cileline; | PK der way in biotech. China has long been known for churning out generic drugs, supplying raw ingredients and managing clinical trials for the pharmaceutical world. But its drugmakers are now also at the cut- ting edge, producing innovative medicines that are cheaper than the ones they com- pete with. China has become the second- largest developer of new drugs, behind only America (see chart 1). As a consequence, Western drugmak- ers are increasingly looking east for ideas. Because of expiring drug patents, they stand to lose as much as $140bn a year in sales by 2030. Last year nearly a third of the large licensing deals they struck—those worth $50m or more—were with Chinese firms, triple the share of 2020. LEK, a con- sultancy, estimates that during that time, the total value of drugs licensed worldwide from China rose 15-fold, to $48bn (see chart 2). In November Merck paid $588m to LaNova Medicines, another Chinese biotech firm, to secure rights to a therapy similar to that produced by Akeso. China’s government identified biotech as a Strategic priority nearly two decades ago. But it was not until 2015 that things really took off, after the drug regulator launched ambitious reforms. It took on more staff and cleared a backlog of 20,000 drug applications in two years. Clinical trials were streamlined and brought into step with global standards. A study by Yi- min Cui of Peking University and col- leagues found that the time taken to ap- prove the first round of human trials fell to 87 days, from 501 days before the reforms. The changes coincided with a wave of returning “sea turtles”, the term for Chi- nese people who studied or worked abroad. China’s vast domestic market helped to attract big drugmakers to its shores, bringing know-how and talent. Easier listing rules gave biotech investors a clearer path to exit. Private funding for Chinese biotech firms rose from $1ibn in 2016 to $13.4bn in 2021. With more brains and money, Chinese firms moved beyond copying Western Drugs licensed from China, value of deals, $bn 50 2015 19 1/ 19 21 24 The Economist February 22nd 2025 drugs. Instead of waiting for patents to ex- pire and making generics, they adopted a “fast-follower” strategy—taking known drugs and modifying them to improve safety, efficacy or delivery. Drug develop- ment typically starts by identifying a tar- get, usually a protein or gene linked to a disease. Scientists then search for mole- cules that can either block or boost the tar- get’s function. Since fast-followers are not starting from scratch, they can run speedi- er, cheaper trials. Between 2021 and 2024 the number of Chinese drugs in development doubled to 4,391. Fast-follower and completely origi- nal treatments made up nearly 42% of the pipeline. Helen Chen from LEK notes that China’s approach has been particularly ef- fective in ADCs, a cancer medicine in which an antibody is attached to a payload of chemotherapy via a chemical linker. Since the treatment’s core components al- ready exist, success depends on combining them in the most effective way. Ms Chen believes this is where Chinese firms thrive. Speed is another advantage, says Mi- chelle Xia, founder of Akeso. “We can do things twice or even three times faster than anywhere else in the world,” she claims. Clinical trials—the longest and most ex- pensive stage of drug development—are faster than in the West. A large patient population makes recruitment easy, and hospitals and doctors are incentivised by the government to support research. Faster trials have made Chinese drugs even more attractive to global drugmakers. Though the clinical information is from mostly Chinese patients, rather than a wid- er sample, it helps investors and pharma firms spot promising treatments. And as the quality of data from China has im- proved, regulators are paying attention. Results from Akeso’s Chinese trials were strong enough to convince America’s Food and Drug Administration to move the drug straight to late-stage trials. Few Chinese firms sell drugs in Ameri- ca directly. Instead they tend to strike li- censing deals: a company sells the rights to market its drug outside China for an up- front payment and other fees. Akeso’s Key- truda rival was licensed to Summit [hera- peutics, an American biotech, for $500m upfront, with up to $5bn in additional pay- ments and a share of royalties. Another approach is the “NewCo” model. This involves a Chinese pharma company spinning off its clinical assets into an American entity run by an experi- enced local management team. [he parent firm retains partial ownership, allowing it to benefit beyond royalties if the drug suc- ceeds. Jefferies, an investment bank, says that about eight such companies have been formed since May. China’s biotech boom is not without risks. [he rise in licensing deals hides a >> The Economist February 22nd 2025 funding crunch among young firms. Priv- ate investment in Chinese biotech fell to a seven-year low in 2024, mirroring a slow- down in global biotech markets. Investors are prioritising companies that generate cash or have strong international potential. Jimmy Zhang, an investor based in San Francisco, worries that many of today’s li- censing deals are a product of the past funding boom. Without fresh investment, he warns, China’s drug pipeline could start to run dry. A bigger concern is rising tensions with America. Because drug prices in the world’s largest economy are less tightly controlled than they are at home, Ameri- can patients are a big source of revenue for Chinese biotech firms. So far America has only applied trade restrictions to high-tech goods; Chinese biotech has escaped similar scrutiny. An attempt to block Chinese firms from sup- plying some biotech services and equip- ment has stalled in Congtess. But, with BARTLEBY Leaving the seat of power Business 59 Donald lrump threatening to impose ta- riffs on pharmaceutical imports, biotech may not be able to escape unscathed for much longer. The approach of selling to America via licensing deals may only offer limited protection; already Chinese bio- tech firms are getting lower licensing fees for their experimental drugs than Ameri- can counterparts, because of geopolitical risks. Impressive as the pace of Chinese in- novation is, it will have to contend with some mighty geopolitical forces. ™ The doctrine of management by walking around matters more than ever HE ARC of management bends to- We sitting on your arse. You may intend to get away from your desk, but it holds you there nonetheless. There are always more emails to clear; there is always more work to get done. When you do leave your desk you are probably off to sit down somewhere else, in a meeting room. And you will probably share that room with your closest col- leagues, people who sit behind desks that are located extremely near to yours. Domestic cats have larger territories than some bosses. Worse, the chair’s magnetic pull is getting stronger. [he pandemic normal- ised video calls with people in different locations: managers can see employees around the world without leaving their perch. Quantification is another excuse to remain sedentary. Dashboards and data can keep bosses informed about the state of the business in real time without ever having to stand up. The antidote to this problem is obvi- ous but sufficiently uncommon that it has a name: management by wander- ing—or walking—around (MBWA). Tom Peters, a management guru, popularised the idea in the 1980s in “In Search of Excellence”, a book he co-wrote with Robert Waterman. He had first come across the term at Hewlett-Packard: bosses there had a habit of dropping by employees’ workstations to have in- formal conversations about what they were up to. Mr Peters adopted it, arguing that managers should go to see the places and people where the real work gets done. [hat case still holds, although the benefits are not guaranteed. One reason to leave the seat of power is motivational: most employees like attention. A study published last year by Pablo Casas-Arce of Arizona State Uni- versity and his co-authors looked at the impact of short, morale-boosting visits by the new divisional manager of a Latin American bank to the 79 branches under his control. The researchers found that the visits were associated with a boost to sales productivity that started to show up prior to the day itself, and that were biggest in higher-performing branches. These improvements in branch perfor- manice were transitory, however, persisting for at least a few weeks before starting to fade. And the motivational effect in this case is doubtless explained, at least in part, by the fact that the divisional manag- er in the study was new; big cheeses can come to seem a lot less inspirational if you see them all the time. The more substantial benefits of MBWA come not from managers descend- ing like minor royals, but from regular visits to the front line to identify and solve problems. Toyota is well-known for its precept of genchi genbutsu (go and see for yourself), which encourages managers to investigate manufacturing problems in person. loyota bigwigs routinely un- dertake gemba (the real place) walks to see assembly lines for themselves and to drive home the firm’s philosophy of kaizen (continuous improvement). This way of thinking can lead to some eye-catchingly analogue practices. At a Toyota car plant near Derby, in Britain, lots of information is still com- municated on paper; autonomous robots bearing windscreens trundle past dis- play boards plastered with posters. Managers there talk arrestingly about having to earn “the right to digitise”: things that can be consumed on a screen might end up being an excuse for bosses to stay away from the factory floor. Perambulating bosses do not always lead to good outcomes. A paper pub- lished in 2013 by Anita Tucker of Boston University and Sara Singer of Stan- ford University examined the imple- mentation of an MBWA programme at 19 American hospitals. They found that in hospitals where senior managers toured the front lines and solicited ideas for improvement, nurses on average felt that performance had actually deteriorated. The authors hypothesise that the problems came from raised expecta- tions: bosses asked people to identify problems and then did not do enough to actually alleviate them. Where percep- tions of performance did improve, it was because hospitals concentrated on easi- er-to-solve problems and because man- agers there took responsibility for mak- ing sure that issues were dealt with. Wandering around, in other words, demands discipline. Bosses are busy: doing MBWA well requires managers to make a conscious effort to leave the office and to invest time solving the problems that they see. But in an era of Zoom calls and data analytics, there is still no substitute for shoe leather. 60 Business
