METADATA:
Source: Economist
Date: 2025-02-25
Categories: Infrastructure
Title: FREE EXCHANGE Trump ’s crosshairs At first glance, reciprocal tariffs are a bureaucratic nightmar...
ID: 181

CONTENT:
FREE EXCHANGE Trump ’s crosshairs At first glance, reciprocal tariffs are a bureaucratic nightmare. On a closer look, they are even worse 66 E STARTED IT,’ is playground justice. It may soon be Amer- Hics: trade policy. On February 13th Donald Trump an- nounced he had decided, for what he later called “purposes of fair- ness”, to employ reciprocal tariffs. When the levies will go into ef- fect, and how they will apply, is uncertain. Amemorandum directs federal agencies to look into “non-reciprocal trade arrangements’, including value-added taxes (VAT) and non-tariff barriers, and to report on remedies by April ist. Like teachers tasked with adjudi- cating a squabble, American officials now face the unenviable task of working out which trade partners are the worst behaved. They may start with, in theory, the simplest task: equalising ta- riffs (matching those applied to American goods by other coun- tries). America already levies taxes on a vast range of goods brought into the country. Its harmonised tariff schedule has 13,000 categories, from “artificial flowers, foliage and fruit and parts thereof” to “swords, cutlasses, bayonets, lances and similar arms”. If America decides that fairness means going tariff-for-ta- riff with all 180 or so trade partners, enacting that would produce around 2.3m individual tariffs and result in outsourcing its trade policy to countries with entirely different industrial structures and interests. This could lead to absurdities: Colombia levies a tariff of 70% on coffee to protect its plantations from foreign competition. America grows negligible quantities of its own. Neither 70% ta- riffs nor persuading Colombia to lower levies on non-existent American exports would increase domestic production. Mr Trump might instead focus on the overall level of tariffs ap- plied to American goods. Colombia levies an average tariff of 5.2% on American imports, compared with the average of 0.3% that America charges on Colombian imports. Choosing the right aver- age, however, adds another layer of complexity. Instead of the simple average—calculated by dividing the sum of rates by the number of items—Mr [Trump could base reciprocity on the trade- weighted average tariff, which adjusts for the volume of imports to which a levy applies. Doing so would avoid placing too much em- phasis on high but irrelevant tariffs, such as those protecting Co- lombian coffee producers. At the same time, it might miss partic- ularly egregious tariffs that prevent trade altogether. Another wrinkle is VAT, which America does not levy. Al- though Mr Trump said other countries’ regimes would be treated as tariffs, there is no fairness argument here: VAT does not dis- criminate, as tariffs do, between domestic and foreign goods. A re- fund for VAT is offered to exports, a bugbear of some trade hawks, but this merely means that European exports to America pay as much tax as American-produced goods. It does not provide Euro- pean producers with an advantage over American rivals. Peter Navarro, an adviser to Mr Trump, has nevertheless called the EU the “poster child” for the VAT issue. Within the bloc, each member can choose its own rate, with a floor of 15%, as well as low- er ones for some goods and exemptions for small firms. America could either choose to mirror such rates for each good, country and company, tying importers up in yet more red tape, or levy a flat tariff at the standard VAT rate for each country. That would hit Hungary, which has a rate of 27%, the hardest. For their part, non- EU countries would face lower tariffs: Canada’s federal goods- and-services tax is just 5%; Australia, Japan and South Korea all have consumption taxes levied at a basic rate of 10%. Last, there are non-tariff barriers, such as food-safety stan- dards. A White House fact sheet pointed out that the EU bans shellfish imports from 48 American states, for instance. Barriers also include things such as quotas or regulatory assessments at the border. The World Bank reckons that some 94% of European imports are subject to non-tariff barriers, compared with just 62% of those to America. Not all of them are discriminatory, as the bur- den of compliance can fall on both domestic and foreign produc- ers. In any case, Mr Trump may decide to come up with his own more favourable definition. In his first term, the Office of the US Trade Representative, a federal agency, included data-protection laws and antitrust cases in a list of non-tariff barriers. The Mar-a-Lago trade round Countries in Mr Trump’s line of fire will respond. The president says he will cut tariffs if other countries make the first move, pledging his levies will be “no more, no less!” than those charged by foreigners. [he World Irade Organisation, a multilateral body, requires countries to adopt a “most-favoured nation” approach, meaning that, in the absence of a specific trade deal, all countries must face the same tariffs. Although America has mostly aban- doned the WTO, other countries take it seriously. They would have to come up with a workaround. Alternatively, they could give in to Mr Trump and cut levies across the board, producing a wave of trade liberalisation unseen since the 1990s. Consider it unlikely. All this adds up to a vast amount of uncertainty, which is just how Mr ‘Trump likes it. Dangling the threat of tariffs over the heads of trade partners grants him a negotiating tool that he can use to address any grievance he wishes. On February 13th a meet- ing between Mr Trump and Narendra Modi, the prime minister of India, ended with a pledge by India to purchase more American oil and gas. Mr Trump’s strategy might not work for ever, though. Financial markets, which barely reacted to the threat of reciprocal tariffs, appear to think Mr Trump is bluffing about his willingness to go through with them. America is more open to trade than many of its partners, which benefits, rather than harms, American consumers. Actually implementing reciprocal tariffs, not just threatening them, would raise prices. Other countries may eventu- ally test this by looking to another playground slogan: “The only way to deal with bullies is to stand up to them.” @ 68 Science & technology The Economist February 22nd 2025 Science under Trump Unscientific methods BOSTON The Trump administration wants to reshape how science is done in America, with global consequences HE ANNUAL meetings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science afford researchers a chance to show off what they do best. Those roaming the corridors in Boston between February 13th and 15th were treated to talks on everything from plate tectonics and an- cient DNA analysis (see next stories) to gene editing and nuclear power. All repre- sent the cutting-edge research to be ex- pected in a country that has long prided it- self on, as per this year’s theme, producing the “science shaping tomorrow’. At the moment, though, it is science it- self that is being shaped. Mere weeks into the second [rump administration, scien- tists worry that their flagship institutions are under assault. The National Scientific Foundation (NSF) and the National Oce- anic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), for example, have been told to prepare for hefty reductions to their bud- gets and staff cuts of up to 50%. Across sev- eral federal agencies, mass firings of thou- sands of “probationary” workers, meaning those recently hired or promoted, have al- ready begun. Research institutions reliant on funding from the National Institutes of Health (NIH), meanwhile, have been warned of restrictions on how they can spend their money. These moves are part of Donald Trump’s and Elon Musk’s aspiration to cut $2trn from the annual federal budget of approximately $7trn. This has put all the governments outgoings, including the roughly $160bn spent every year on basic and applied research, under the micro- scope. Another motivation is a suspicion that scientists and their research have be- come tools of a “woke ideology”. Precisely which of the administration’s changes will > ALSOINTHIS SECTION 69 Disentangling ancient family dynamics 70 Anew view of how highlands form 71 Well informed: Smartphone bans survive legal challenge is still unclear. But the scale of the cuts and the manner in which they are being introduced could se- riously damage American science. The deepest slashes proposed so far concern the $44bn in grants allocated by the NIH. Many institutions routinely use NIH funds to cover between 50% and 70% of their “indirect” costs, which includes things such as laboratory maintenance, equipment provision and salaries for sup- port and administrative staff. The adminis- tration sees that share as too high, and wants to cap indirect costs at 15% of the grant total, in line with similar limits set by private organisations, forcing institutions to pay for the remainder themselves. Reforms to the NIH have been pro- posed before. The growth of indirect costs was highlighted by the Government Ac- countability Office during Barack Oba- ma’s presidency, leading the administra- tion to consider a cap of its own. But one of 15% is seen by many as too restrictive. Part of the reason that private funding can be so targeted is that many of its grantees can make use of equipment, such as mass spec- trometers and lab benches, at their home institutions that has been paid for with federal dollars. The government's proposal of a 15% cap undoes the social contract “for institutions and the federal government to co-build the infrastructure for American science, says Holden Thorp, editor-in- chief of the Science family of journals. >> The Economist February 22nd 2025 Analysis by The Economist finds that a total of $6.3bn in NIH funding could be at stake. Studies of endocrinology, diabetes and metabolism would see cuts of almost a fifth of their total budget (see chart). This could have serious consequences for med- ical research. It may also backfire political- ly: many of the institutions hardest-hit would be in Republican states. Univers- ities in Alabama, for example, received $386m in funding from the NIH in 2024, supporting more than 4,700 jobs and $900m-worth of economic activity. Wait and see Whether the cap will come into force, though, is still unclear. Federal judges have put the proposal on hold, in response to lawsuits filed by 22 states, plus national as- sociations representing medical schools and some hospitals. Congress has passed several bills which specifically prohibit the NIH from changing the provisions related to indirect costs, meaning that the matter will be hashed out in the courts. For now, the atmosphere of uncertainty is unlikely to be conducive to progress in a field where researchers prioritise long-term stability. Another prong of the administration’s actions is an attempt to influence what re- search is funded. Russell Vought, the head of the Office of Management and Budget, has previously suggested cuts as a way of ensuring scientific institutions like the NSF cannot “propagandise for woke ideology”. Federal agencies are now required to re- view all grants in light of an executive or- der terminating programmes aimed at pro- moting diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI), which Mr ‘Irump has argued has made government less meritocratic. As evi- Medical check-up Potential reduction in National Institutes of Health funding, by field, % of 2024 total Ue eC oes ZU Endocrinology and metabolism seit Cardiovascular 3250 Oncology 986 Psychiatry 529 Neurology or 719 neuroscience Precision medicine 537 and genomics Age-related diseases 537 and dementia Epidemiology 400 Infectious diseases and immunology | oe: Health technology WAN SCs and Al in medicine Sources: NII |; [he [ conomisi dence of DEI’s malign influence Ted Cruz, the Senate Commerce Committee chair- man, released a database that identified 3,476 NSF grants—roughly 10% of those awarded during the Biden administra- tion—as being unacceptably “woke”. One analysis of a randomly chosen subset of these grants by Scott Alexander, a blogger, found that only around 40% were actually related to DEI (an analysis of all 3,476, con- ducted by 7he Economist with the help of an artificial-intelligence model, found the figure was 44%). Of the remainder, the vast majority briefly touched on potential im- pact or outreach activities. A smaller group used disfavoured homonyms of scientific terms, like one grant concerning earth- quakes and tsunamis, which cited “trans- crustal processes’. Removing boilerplate language from future grant applications will be time-con- suming but doable. Getting exemptions for research that has been wrongly flagged may also be possible, though no process to do so has yet been made public. But some valuable research may be dropped. It is research on climate change that faces the most pressing and concrete threats. Almost all mentions of climate change and programmes to combat it have been scrubbed from federal websites, and the National Nature Report—the first as- sessment of nature and biodiversity across the government, produced by more than 150 scientists and funded with government money—was cancelled weeks before the first full draft was due. One researcher who studies how the oceans absorb carbon di- oxide says he envisages a future in which his team removes references to climate change in order to get grants approved. The status of many other scientific pro- jects related to climate change and the en- vironment now seems uncertain—not least because plenty are funded, at least in part, by appropriations set out in the Inflation Reduction Act, the climate legislation passed by the Biden administration, and which Mr Trump's officials hope to unpick. Much of such funding is administrated through NOAA, the federal agency which oversees atmospheric science and environ- mental monitoring, including weather forecasting and making projections about climate change. NOAA itself is squarely in the cross-hairs. “Project 2025”, a set of campaign proposals for how Mr Trump should reform the federal government (and to which Mr Vought contributed), de- scribed NOAA as a major player in the “cli- mate-change alarm industry” and called for it to be “broken up and downsized”. That would have consequences beyond America’s borders. Several media outlets, including the Washington Post and Wired, reported internal emails to some NOAA staff instructing them to pause “all inter- national engagements”. Many meteoro- Science &technology 69 logical and climate agencies around the world rely on the observations and data collected by NOAA. The worst affected will be agencies in poor countries, which often do not have the money or infrastructure to make their own detailed weather forecasts and climate projections, says one top sci- entist at an international organisation, who could speak only anonymously. Climate science in America is “possibly the strongest in the world”, the scientist points out, and reductions to it will “take out the foundations from others’ work”. Other organisations abroad will have to step up to compensate for the loss. But, the Scientist notes wryly, that creates an op- portunity to chip away at America’s long- standing scientific hegemony. Those gath- ered in Boston to celebrate America’s “ad- vancement of science” might feel that pro- mise ringing a little hollow. & Archaeology It’s all relatives BOSTON Family dynamics from thousands of years ago can now be revealed NA’S POWER to illuminate humanity’s D past never ceases to amaze. Collected from those now alive, it shows how their ancestors spread across the world from their African homeland—and, having done SO, re-spread in the events known to hist- ory as “migrations” and “conquests”. DNA from long-dead individuals is equally informative. This demonstrates evolution’s byways (early Europeans, for example, retained the dark skin of their Af- ' LJ rm Mh # i & ; ‘ F 1, 4s, Fs Buried secrets >> 70 Science & technology rican ancestors), and also how Homo sapi- ens interbred with other human species, now extinct, on its journey to dominion ov- er pine and palm. Now, as an audience at the American Association for the Advance- ment of Science meeting learned from Maite Rivollat of Bordeaux University, in France, it can be used to disentangle the family dynamics of previous ages. Dr Rivollat spoke of her own work in Gurgy, a village in central France, and also of around half a dozen other studies car- ried out over the past decade. When re- search of this sort began, it was limited to tracking membership of matrilines (via the DNA of intracellular structures called mito- chondria, which pass to a mother’s off- spring from her eggs) and patrilines (via Y- chromosomes, which pass intact from fa- ther to son). The subject really took off, though, when DNA sequencing became powerful and cheap enough to allow inter- generational tracking of the blocks of chromosomes that swap around when sex cells form. This allows both parents of an individual to be identified, and so permits genealogies to be determined in detail. One early study was of a mass grave from 2800BC, in Koszyce, Poland, contain- ing 15 individuals. DNA examination showed that these people, who had all been killed by blows to the head, belonged to the same family. The suspicion is that they were victims of a raid. But their burial together suggests at least some survivors were emotionally attached to them. On the wider question of genealogy, studies of several early sites—the Lech Valley in Germany (occupied from 2500- 1800BC), Hazelton North in Britain (occu- pied in 3700BC) and Dr Rivollat’s own at Gurgy (occupied in 4700BC)—paint a pa- triarchal picture. Relying on 26 skeletons, the Lech Valley project revealed six multi- generational family units (known to ar- chaeologists as pedigrees), represented by up to eight individuals over as many as five generations. It was clear from their DNA that the women contributing to these pedi- erees were outsiders. In some cases they had travelled around 350km to be there. Hazelton North, meanwhile, showed evidence of polygyny, as well as of incom- ing women. The 27 skeletons found here were distributed among four burial cham- bers, each containing descendants of the union of a particular man and one of four women who had, perhaps, formed his har- em. And in Gurgy, 63 of the 110 skeletons sampled belonged to a pedigree that stretched over seven generations, again with evidence that the women had their origins elsewhere. As time passed, things became less pa- triarchal. Analyses of skeletons from south-west Germany, which date from 600-200BC, suggest women stayed put while men journeyed to marry them. And for Britons brought up on the story of Boudica, queen of the Iceni, a Celtic tribe that rose against the island’s Roman con- querors in 60AD, there is evidence that her contemporaries in another tribe, the Duro- triges, were equally feminist. A study span- ning the years from 100BC to 100AD showed, via their progeny’s genetics, that many women had several partners. Ihe most spectacular demonstrations of the new techniques so far, though, are from Hungary and Mongolia. The Hungar- ian site was a burial ground in Rakoczifal- va, in the country’s centre, that was used between 550AD and 800AD by the Avars, a nomadic group from central Asia who had colonised the area. Study of around 300 in- dividuals from this cemetery has yielded a veritable clan of nine interconnected sub- pedigrees, the largest involving 146 people and spanning nine generations. Geomorphology Assuming the mantle BOSTON The Economist February 22nd 2025 The Mongolian site, co-incidentally in the part of the world from which the Avars are believed to originate, dates from 2900BC. It accommodates a woman whose ancestry, with five degrees of separation, can be traced to a location 1,400km west- north-west, in what is now Russia. One thing these studies have in com- mon is that all were conducted in Eurasia (and almost all in the far-western part of this continent, the bit known familiarly as “Europe” ). That is hardly surprising. This part of the world is home to vast numbers of archaeologists and paleoanthropolo- gists, and includes the world’s leading cen- tre for the study of ancient human DNA, the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology in Leipzig, Germany. But re- searchers are now casting their nets wider, especially in Central America. Stay tuned for revelations about Mayan family life. @ How the great highlands of continental interiors form is no longer a mystery LATE TECTONICS is geology’s Theory Pot Everything. The realisation in the 1960s that Earth’s crust is made of frag- ments called plates—and that these plates can grow, shrink and move around—ex- plained the origins of mountain ranges, ocean trenches, volcanoes and earth- quakes. It also explained why continents drift over the planet’s surface and thus, from time to time, come together to form an all-embracing supercontinent. Mountain ranges, ocean trenches, vol- canoes and earthquakes are, however, things that happen mainly where plates abut. Plate tectonics is not as good at ex- plaining events and features elsewhere, particularly in continental interiors. These are often dominated by extensive high- lands called plateaux, which differ in form from mountain ranges and are frequently bounded by giant escarpments. But, as he told the annual meeting of the American >> The Economist February 22nd 2025 Association for the Advancement of Sci- ence in Boston, Tom Gernon of Southamp- ton University thinks he can bring these puzzling geographical features into the ambit of plate tectonics as well. His team’s calculations suggest they are caused by waves that ripple through Earth’s mantle, the layer below the crust, when continents divide. They may even be responsible for some of the “mini” mass extinctions which punctuate the fossil record. His work began with a different, more eye-catching question: explaining how di- amonds are propelled to the surface. Dia- monds are crystals of carbon compressed into that form by the high pressure found in the upper mantle. Those discovered at the surface have been carried there by un- usual, explosive volcanoes called kimber- lite pipes, which traverse the crust from bottom to top, erupting at ground level. Dr Gernon and his colleagues proposed that the rifting of continental plates sets in motion a slow-moving wave through the semi-liquid rock of the mantle. (Really slow-moving: they estimate it travels at about 15-20km per million years.) This wave of hot rock ablates the bottom of the crust, forming gas-charged magmas that erupt violently as kimberlite pipes. They then followed up this work by ask- ing what other consequences their newly discovered waves might have. The an- swers, when they ran their model on a com- puter, were giant escarpments with pla- teaux behind them. These features were formed by a process known as isostatic re- bound, in which the travelling wave re- moved the crust’s underside, causing the rock above to rise, rather as a balloon rises when its crew jettison ballast. All this rapidly emerging highland will, though, be subject to immediate erosion. And that is where the extinctions come in. Really big extinctions, such as those at the end of the Permian and Cretaceous peri- ods, have big, sudden causes (huge volcan- ic eruptions and collision with an asteroid respectively). But these are interspersed by numerous smaller catastrophes that partic- ularly affect the oceans, and are associated with reduced levels of oxygen. This reduction of oxygen seems to hap- pen because organic matter is being creat- ed in greater than normal quantities, and then decomposing, sucking that element out of the water. Dr Gernon thinks this is a result of pulses of erosion caused by pla- teau uplift fertilising the oceans with phos- phorus. That causes life to bloom, increas- ing the amount of organic matter available for decomposition. He argues, in particu- lar, that the pattern of these mini mass ex- tinctions during the Jurassic and Creta- ceous periods supports his hypothesis. It all, then, fits very nicely together. Ge- ology’s Theory of Everything continues successfully to defend its title. I Well informed Science &technology 71 Should schools ban smartphones? Early evidence suggests such bans may do little to benefit pupils’ mental health ke HAS not allowed smartphone use in primary or secondary schools since 2018, claiming that it would help children focus, reduce their social-media use and mitigate online bullying. The Netherlands initiated a similar ban in January 2024. Hungary followed suit later that year. Legislators in Britain are considering similar measures. [he key question facing them is whether banning smartphones in schools offers any bene- fits to mental health. That there is a problem seems clear. In 2021 America’s surgeon general com- piled a report revealing that persistent feelings of hopelessness climbed by 40% among American high-school pupils between 2009 and 2019. The number who seriously considered killing them- selves went up by 36%. What makes these findings all the worse is that 48% of mental-health problems (like depres- sion and anxiety) that emerge during adolescence will plague people for the rest of their lives. It is tempting to connect these trends with the increased availability of smart- phones, but establishing a causal con- nection is difficult. Part of the problem is that smartphones contain multitudes. Using a smartphone to solve crosswords or read the news may well have markedly different psychological effects from intensive social-media use. Children are no less varied. [he brain undergoes profound changes during puberty, meaning that any research on the effects of smartphone use needs to consider the developmental age of the children being studied as well as their precise smartphone habits. No studies have got this specific. Those that have come close, however, reveal that unfettered access to social media on smartphones during puberty, especially at critical moments when the brain is changing, may cause problems. One study, led by Amy Orben at the University of Cambridge, asked 17,409 people between the ages of ten and 21 how satisfied they were with their lives and how much they used social media. The findings, reported in 2022 in Nature Communications, show that girls who increased their social media use over the course of a year were significantly less satisfied with their lives if the increase took place when they were between 11 and 13. Boys showed the same trend when increases took place when they were 14 or 15 years old. How much of this will change by banning phones in schools is unclear. In a paper published in the Lavicet in Febru- ary, Victoria Goodyear at the University of Birmingham compared the mental well-being of students in schools that implemented restrictive smartphone policies with those with relaxed policies. She also monitored overall screentime. Her results show that, though those who spent more time on a smartphone overall did have a decline in mental well-being, there was no difference between the two groups. She and her colleagues argue that setting up policies at schools alone is simply not enough. Researchers are trying to paint a complete picture with both hands tied behind their back. According to Dr Orben, social-media companies routine- ly refuse to give independent researchers access to detailed data on the behaviours of their users. This forces researchers to rely on less accurate proxy measures, like overall screentime. It also means that children playing educational games are being put in the same analytical bin as children who are on social media. A more nuanced picture of the effects of smartphones needs to be drawn. 2 Culture The Economist February 22nd 2025 Fiction and history Ghost writer
