METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: Infrastructure
Title: TIM BRADSHAW AND LUCY FISHER — LONDON Apple is withdrawing its most secure cloud storage service ...
ID: 114

CONTENT:
TIM BRADSHAW AND LUCY FISHER — LONDON Apple is withdrawing its most secure cloud storage service from the UK, esca- lating a confrontation over a secret gov- ernment demand to access user data. The company said yesterday that it “can no longer offer” Advanced Data Protection (ADP) for iCloud in Britain, removing the system that ensures “end- to-end encryption” of user information stored in the US tech group’s servers. Last month, Apple received a “techni- cal capability notice” under the UK Investigatory Powers Act, a law dubbed the “Snooper’s Charter” by its critics, but which the government believes is needed by law enforcement to investi- gate terrorism and child sexual abuse. The law prevents companies that receive such a notice from publicly dis- cussing receipt of such an order, making yesterday's move Apple’s first tacit acknowledgment of the situation. The IPA’s use against Apple has trig- gered the tech industry’s highest-profile battle over encryption technology in almost a decade. “Apple remains committed to offering our users the highest level of security for their personal data and are hopeful that we will be able to do so in the future in the UK,’ it said. “As we have said many times before, we have never built a back door or mas- ter key to any of our products or services and we never will.” The Home Office did not respond toa request for comment. The request for a so-called back door to user data would have enabled law enforcement and security services — after obtaining a warrant approved bya judge — to tap iPhone back-ups and other cloud data that is otherwise inac- cessible, even to Apple itself. The law has extraterritorial powers, meaning UK law enforcement would have been able to access the encrypted iCloud data of Apple customers any- where in the world, including in the US. After reports of the UK’s order emerged earlier this month, the tech industry rallied to oppose the govern- ment’s move. “If the UK forces a global back door into Apple's security, it will make every- one in every country less safe,” Will Cathcart, head of Meta’s WhatsApp business, said last week. “One country’s secret order risks putting all of us in danger and it should be stopped.” As the latest amendments to the Investigatory Powers Act were moving through parliament in early 2024, Apple said it was “deeply concerned” by what it described as “unprecedented over-reach” and signalled that it would pull any affected products from the UK. The business is ‘playing politics with data privacy and security to prove a point’, says one critic But Aled Lloyd Owen, professor at Southampton University and a cyber security expert, said Apple’s move “is a dramatic and unnecessary response’. “There are technical options which can facilitate lawful exceptional access,” said Owen. “Apple are playing politics with users’ data privacy and security to prove a point.” Apple’s iMessage and FaceTime serv- ices are also end-to-end encrypted and remain available in the UK. New users can no longer sign up to iCloud ADP in the UK as of yesterday. Customers in the UK who had already turned the setting on will be required to disable the feature in order to keep using their iCloud account, Apple said. The way the system is set up means that Apple cannot disable the feature itself. “Rather than be forced to do something it didn’t want to do, Apple took the decision to withdraw ADP from the UK market,” said Edward Lewis, chief executive of CyXcel, a cyber secu- rity consultancy. “This just means that the absolute encryption that enabled bad actors to do things that any reasonably minded member of the public would not sup- port, has now disappeared. That is not necessarily a bad thing.” But Matthew Sinclair, UK senior director at the Computer & Communi- cations Industry Association, a tech trade group, said weakening encryption was a “worrying step backwards”. “Law enforcement authorities should be working with companies to help pro- tect people’s privacy against growing global threats, not forcing them to scrap important security improve- ments,” he said. Hong Kong's CKI makes £7bn Thames Water offer IVAN LEVINGSTON, KAYE WIGGINS, EUAN HEALY AND ROBERT SMITH Hong Kong’s CK Infrastructure has made a preliminary £7bn bid to take a majority stake in Thames Water, while indicating that it would require the troubled utility’s bondholders to take significant haircuts. CKI, part of the CK Hutchison group, submitted the non-binding offer to take over Thames Water earlier this month, according to two people familiar with the matter. While CK] indicated it would be will- ing to inject £7bn of equity to fix the util- ity’s broken balance sheet, its interest is contingent on bondholders in Thames Water’s near-£20bn debt pile agreeing to take significant writedowns, the peo- ple added. The details of CKI’s prelimi- nary bid underscore the scale of the bal- ance sheet overhaul Thames Water requires to attract new funding from major infrastructure investors. CKI’s insistence on creditors taking losses as part of its bid could put itona collision course with Thames Water’s senior bondholders, which include US hedge fund Elliott Management. These so-called class A lenders have indicated that they will resist any deal that inflicts substantial losses on them and are pre- paring their own bid for the utility. CK Hutchison’s majority ownership of Northumbrian Water could also prove a sticking point. The group is not keen to dispose of its 75 per cent stake in the CEE EEE EERE ERE EE REET EERE EERE EERE Hee CREE E EERE EERE EEE EEE EEE CEE EERE EERE EEE CERO EERE EERE REE EEEEEHEEEE EE EEE EES SEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EERE EERE EH HEE EEE EEE HES TEETH EE EEE EEE Ee HEE EEE Financials other regional water monopoly, the peo- ple said, which may cause issues with competition regulators. CKI has numerous infrastructure investments in the UK, including stakes in electricity distributor UK Power Net- works and gas distributor Northern Gas Networks. CK] last year added a second- ary public listing in London to its exist- ing trading venue of Hong Kong. Thames Water received several non- binding bids earlier this month, includ- ing a rival £4bn bid from US private CKI’s insistence on creditors taking losses could put it on a collision course with senior bondholders equity firm KKR. The UK’s largest water utility is looking to raise billions of pounds in equity while negotiating a debt restructuring with its lenders in a bid to avoid insolvency. Thames Water and adviser Roth- schild & Co intend to select credible par- ties that can progress to the next stage of bidding by the end of the month. Thames Water declined to comment. A representative for CKI did not respond toa request for comment. Thames Water this week won High Court approval to borrow up to £3bn in high-cost debt from class A lenders, which the utility has said it needs to avoid running out of cash on March 24. COE EERE EERE ERE HERERO EERE REE EEE HE eee CEE EERE EEE EERE EE EERE EERE EERE EERE EEE EERE EERE EERE EEEE EERE EERE EEE EEEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EE EEE EERE EEE Ee HEHEHE HEE EE Coinbase says SEC will drop lawsuit against crypto group ZEHRA MUNIR — NEW YORK STEFANIA PALMA — WASHINGTON Coinbase has said the US securities reg- ulator’s staff have agreed to drop the agency's landmark lawsuit against the cryptocurrency exchange, in a move that signals a friendlier approach towards digital assets under Donald Trump's presidency. Securities and Exchange Commission staff have “agreed in principle” to dis- miss the case, which alleged the crypto company had violated US securities law. The decision is “subject to commis- sioner approval”, Coinbase said in its statement yesterday. “This is a victory not just for Coin- base, but for our customers, the United States and individual freedom,” the crypto exchange said. Coinbase shares rose as much as 4.4 per cent shortly after Wall Street’s opening bell yesterday, but were down by 0.9 per cent alongside declines for the broader market by late morning. The SEC sued Coinbase in June 2023, alleging it had violated US securities law because it did not register as a national securities exchange, broker or clearing agency. The move was part of a broader regulatory crackdown on the crypto market, which also involved the agency accusing Binance of offering unregis- tered securities and operating as an unregistered venue. Coinbase criticised the SEC’s “war against crypto’, claiming in yesterday's statement that the commission’s deci- sion to sue the exchange two years after it went public in 2021 was due toa change in “political leadership” at the agency. Scrapping the lawsuit would mark an about-turn for the SEC from its stance under Gary Gensler, the agency’s former chair appointed by ex-president Joe Biden. Gensler branded the crypto sector a “Wild West” “rife with fraud” and unleashed an enforcement crack- down against crypto players. Trump this month moved to strengthen his control over independ- ent federal agencies, including the SEC, by signing an executive order that orders them to send draft regulations for review. The SEC declined to comment. 7 rmaceufica Se he See De OE — is. Weight loss Copycat brands flood Russian markets with cheap versions of Ozempic Kremlin signs off on local use of Novo Nordisk’s best-selling formula despite its patent DARIA MOSOLOVA — LONDON Russians have taken to injecting them- selves with cheap copycat Ozempic after Novo Nordisk’s withdrawal of its block- buster drug prompted local pharma companies to flood the market with alternatives. Five brands have taken over the lucrative niche after the drug, which is approved to treat diabetes but is also used unofficially for weight loss, became one of the few western medicines to all but disappear from Russian pharmacy shelves when companies withdrew fol- lowing Moscow's full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022. The Kremlin responded by signing off on aseries of “compulsory licences”, let- ting local drugmakers use Novo Nord- isk’s formula without a patent, with the claim that continued supply of the drug was crucial for hundreds of thousands of Russians with type 2 diabetes. “Companies that want to achieve any- thing in this life try to make use of their opportunities,” said Marina Rykova, deputy chief executive of Geropharm, which dominates Russia's retail market for the generic version of the drug. It took nine months for Geropharm to start churning out what it says is an identical product from a factory near Moscow, using active ingredients from Chinese company Zhejiang Peptites Bio- tech. Together with its main competi- tors, Promomed and PSK Pharma, the companies soon found that their sales were surging. Geropharm said its replica of Ozem- pic — called Semavic — sold more thana million packs in Russia in its first full year on the market. According to Rus- sian analytics company DSM Group, it was one of the three bestselling drugs in the country’s pharmacies in November and December, beating common cold medicines such as Nurofen. A month's supply of Semavic sells for about $44 in Russia while leftover stock of genuine Ozempic costs about $55, because of government price caps on imported medicines to offset much lower salaries. In the US, it can cost more than $1,000 to buy the drug with- out insurance. One Russian consultant living in Europe said he had taken to buying Ozempic in Russia and bringing it into the EU for personal consumption, jok- ingly calling it “medical tourism from Russia”. In an interview with the Financial Times, Rykova was open about the fact that Geropharm’s product “is this popu- lar, of course, not because it treats type 2 diabetes but because most studies have shown this drug is an effective treat- ment for obesity”. In total, Russian consumers bought more than $96mn of copycat versions of Ozempic last year, with up to 80 per cent using the drug for weight loss, according to a report by analytics group RNC Pharma. Nikolay Bespalov, development director at RNC Pharma, said the trend had developed because “in our country, there is still a fairly liberal attitude towards over-the-counter sale of pre- scription drugs. “For medicine that is not very strong or narcotic, in the vast majority of cases, almost everything is available without prescription.” Russian internet forums have quickly filled with reviews, with people describ- ing how they would increase their dos- age after the amount recommended on the package did not yield the desired results. Ozempic’s active ingredient, semaglu- tide, is marketed for both diabetes and weight loss, and is also used in Novo A million packs of Geropharm’s Semavic, a copycat version of Novo Nordisk’s diabetes and weight-loss drug Ozempic, were sold in its first year Nordisk’s obesity treatment Wegovy. Russian companies last year registered a range of generic versions. In 2021, Novo Nordisk made up 100 per cent of the supply of semaglutide drugs to Russian hospitals and pharma- cies in the government procurement market. By last year, Promomed and Gerop- harm accounted for 44 per cent and 36 per cent, respectively, while Novo had 0.2 per cent, according to data from con- sultancy Headway Company. Russia’s pharma industry had already benefited from compulsory licensing during the coronavirus pandemic, with Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin sign- ing a decree allowing a local company to make copies of Remdesivir, the antiviral medication developed by Gilead Sci- ences. The mechanism is normally used in developing countries during health emergencies to ensure that local popu- lation can access vital medicines at an affordable price. Novo Nordisk told the Financial Times it “[hasn’t] engaged in any nego- tiations about semaglutide products in Russia nor received any royalties”. Geropharm said it had contacted the company for permission but received no reply. “It is not normal practice, where Mishustin can just write three to four paragraphs allowing this or other company to reproduce a patented prod- uct,” said Allan Gobbs, managing part- ner of US healthcare venture firm ATEM Capital. “This means that if your drug is suc- cessful, they can just steal it,” he added. “Under such circumstances, large com- panies will lose interest in the Russian market, while local producers will stop putting effort into developing anything new.” Most companies making Ozempic copies in Russia import their active ingredients from China or India, vouch- ing for the safety of their products, which they say are fully bioequivalent and so should have the same risks and side effects. But “in order for us to know whether a drug is really good or not, we need data transparency’, said Irina Yakutenko, a Russian molecular biologist based in Germany who runs ascience channel on YouTube. “The data on these [copycat] drugs is not published in international peer-review journals, and not collated properly because so much is sold under the table. “Things like this normally work until the first catastrophe.” Additional reporting by Courtney Weaver and Hannah Kuchler 22 February/23 February 2025 * FT Weekend COMPANIES & MARKETS 11 CEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EERE EEE EERE EERE EERE EERE Ee EEE EEE EERE EEE CEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE REE EERE EEE Ee EEE EERE EEE EERE EEE EERE EEE EE EEE EERE EE EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EERE ERE Pee eee
