METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: Infrastructure
Title: By Maria ARMENTAL Private-equity executives entered 2025 with high hopes for a dealmaking recover...
ID: 69

CONTENT:
By Maria ARMENTAL Private-equity executives entered 2025 with high hopes for a dealmaking recovery that is lifting payouts to fund inves- tors and powering fundraising. The industry’s latest earn- ings reports showed a rebound in annual distributable earn- ings and other metrics that track cash that can be returned to shareholders, after reporting double-digit declines for 2023. “Through January, the pri- vate pipelines that we see have been quite strong,” Ares Man- agement Chief Executive Mi- chael Arougheti said at a re- cent Bank of America conference. He cited publicly traded business development company Ares Capital’s strong increase in investment commit- ments during the month to around $1.2 billion against a roughly $1.8 billion investment backlog as of Jan. 28. “So there are indicators that the animal spirits are, in fact, moving and that people want to transact,” Arougheti said. “But there [are] headwinds and those headwinds may slow some of that enthusiasm,” he said, referring to uncertainty, including inflation trends and the Trump administration’s tariff policies. Comments by Arougheti and other private-equity executives echoed ones by investment bankers and others whose fourth-quarter earnings reports noted that deals are getting done and the market for merg- ers and acquisitions is coming unstuck. While acknowledging the M&A market’s sluggishness, Blackstone Chief Financial Of- ficer Michael Chae said during the BofA conference that his firm’s view backs the bullish tone among dealmakers. “We see this pipeline really filling and taking off, perhaps more second quarter than first quarter in terms of announced, signed deals,” Chae said. He also noted Blackstone invested $134 billion last year, up 81% from 2023. “We continue to think it’s a good environment to invest,” he said. Blackstone ended 2024 with $168.6 billion ready to invest. Many firms posted records across key metrics last year and highlighted opportunities ahead during earnings calls. Apollo Global Management leaders, for in- are going to be needed, fi- nanced and borrowed.” Like Rowan, other private- equity executives said they are sticking with massive bets on data centers and other AlI-re- lated infrastructure, citing growing demand. Trillions of dollars would be needed to build stance, on a call data centers global industria’ TFllions Would ker infra rents is not «De needed for sinc eine just about [arti- data centers when govern- scaly itell’ and other big- ess md us DeepSeek,” ticket projects. sources remain Mare Rowan said Connor said during the Teskey, presi- firm’s call, referring to the dent of Brookfield Asset Man- startup in China that said it had trained high-performing AI models at lower cost and with- out top-performing processors. “This is about fundamental in- vestments in energy, in infra- structure, in power, in data, in next-generation manufacturing and a host of other things that agement. Ares, which invested a re- cord $106.7 billion last year and ended December with a re- cord $133.1 billion in dry pow- der, or undeployed capital, also emphasized “the magnitude of the opportunity relative to the amount of capital,” as Arougheti said during his firm’s earnings call. “There is a significant op- portunity to bring together our infrastructure and real-assets platform to capitalize on the opportunity in digital infra and new economy real estate,” Arougheti said. A rebound in investment sales and exits helped drive closely watched measures such as distributable earnings as firms pitch new funds to pro- spective investors. For example, TPG stresses how it boosted distributions as it markets new funds with plans to raise significantly more than the $30 billion it banked in 2024. The value of the firm’s exits more than doubled last year from 2023 levels. Investors “remain very fo- cused on [distributions] as a key performance metric,” said TPG CFO Jack Weingart during the firm’s earnings call. “This is particularly important as we look to significantly increase our capital raised in 2025.” Bluebird Bio to Be Acquired by Carlyle Group, SK Capital
