METADATA:
Source: Economist
Date: 2025-02-25
Categories: Bonds
Title: ALEC DIETSCH Buffalo, New York There is plenty of evidence to suggest that the size of a ring is ...
ID: 172

CONTENT:
ALEC DIETSCH Buffalo, New York There is plenty of evidence to suggest that the size of a ring is inversely related to the success of a marriage. Another instance where size does not matter. EBERHARD NEUTZ Laguna Beach, California 16 The Economist February 22nd 2025 Orders and chaos WASHINGTON, DC Donald Trump is a reckless president, but not yet a lawless one LL AMERICAN presidents eventually arrive at the realisation that they ought to have more power. But most do at least accept that Congress and the courts should play some part in governing the country. Donald lrump, however, seems to see Article II of the constitution, which lays out the president’s powers, as a blank cheque. He has a tendency to explain to friendly audiences, “I have the right to do whatever | want as president.” [his week on social media, in much the same vein, he pooh-poohed pedantic legal constraints on his actions: “He who saves his Country does not violate any Law.” Mr Trump’s disdain for constitutional niceties is not purely rhetorical: he did, after all, try to steal the election of 2020. His thunderous first month back in office has done little to reassure those who fear the worst about his intentions. On day one Mr lrump issued an executive order de- creeing that children born to illegal mi- grants should not be acknowledged as citi- zens, contradicting the 14th Amendment. Soon after he began a shock-and-awe cam- paign against the federal bureaucracy, led by Elon Musk, the world’s richest man. He has idled lots of civil servants, cancelled billions of dollars of government contracts and in effect closed USAID, America’s main foreign-aid agency. Master and commander Mr Trump’s interpretation of his powers is so sweeping that some critics say America is already in a constitutional crisis. Oppo- nents have challenged many of Mr Trump’s orders in court; judges have suspended several of them. Even greater battles loom. Mr Trump’s acolytes fervently believe that Article II gives the president the right to “impound” federal funds, or spend less than Congress has allocated for specific purposes. [That would shrivel the legisla- ture’s stature, reducing its “power of the purse” to a mere suggestive function. Will Mr Irump, in his determination to reshape America’s government, usurp the authority of Congress and the courts? Tracking the president’s frenetic activi- ty and assessing its significance is diffi- cult—by design. Mr Irump issued 26 exec- utive orders on his first day, three times as many as his predecessor, Joe Biden. In his first month he has churned out 72 orders, vastly exceeding the tally of all recent pres- idents (see chart on next page). Mr Trump also communicates in a madman style, making blustering threats of questionable seriousness. Io take a few recent examples, does America really mean to impose strict tariffs on its neighbours? To occupy the Gaza Strip and evict Palestinians? To an- nex Greenland over the objections of Den- mark? To make Canada the Sist state? Mr Trump stuns the world by throwing out lots of dramatic proposals in this off- hand manner—“flooding the zone with shit” as Steve Bannon, once Mr lrump’s ovengali, liked to put it. Shrill reactions are pounced upon by Mr [rump and his allies The Economist February 22nd 2025 as proof that his political enemies and the mainstream media are hysterical and bi- ased. It is often hard to know how con- cerned to be. Elections, as another of Mr ‘Irump’s predecessors, Barack Obama, once said, have consequences. Presidents have both the right and the means to implement lots of decisions, good or bad. One of Mr Trump’s worst affronts to the rule of law so far was also unquestionably legal: his par- don of more than 1,000 people who ran- sacked the Capitol on January 6th 2021 ina failed attempt to overturn his election loss. similarly, Mr Trump has wide discretion to fire high-ranking government officials and to shift the focus of the Department of Jus- tice away from corruption and towards im- migration enforcement. He has latitude to impose (and rescind) tariffs, to regulate migration to America and to reorient regu- latory agencies towards his preferred poli- cies. If he wants the bureaucracy to be “traumatically affected” by the hostility of his administration, as Russell Vought, the new head of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) has promised, that may be damaging for the country, but it is the president's prerogative. Fast and furious Mr Irump’s early actions look particularly worrisome because the executive branch moves much faster than the legislative and judicial branches can respond. Mr Musk’s fondness for hyperbole further accentu- ates the discrepancy. Despite his talk of “feeding USAID into the wood chipper” and killing off the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), both agencies were created by Congress. The corollary is that only Congress can abolish them. The budgets Congress grants to federal agen- cies also have the force of law. When Mr Irump’s administration vio- lates such laws, the courts have been order- ing it to remedy its transgressions. [he birthright-citizenship order never went into effect. Another injunction prevented a broad spending freeze that Mr Trump had decreed. Federal workers, who are shielded by various union contracts and civil-ser- vice protections, have sued to stop some of Mr Trump’s attacks on the bureaucracy, scoring temporary reprieves. Mr Musk’s representatives have been admonished by some judges to stay out of sensitive gov- ermment systems, since they lack the re- quired security clearances and privacy training, although others have declined to interfere. On February 13th a federal dis- trict judge ruled that the funding for USAID contractors was improperly cut off and must resume. On February 14th a judge ordered the same about the CFPB. Such back and forth, although especial- ly prevalent under Mr Irump, is common in all presidencies. What would be unprec- edented would be for Mr Trump’s adminis- tration to flatly defy a court order. Thus far, Mr Irump has not crossed that Rubicon, protesting at adverse court rulings but complying with them. Some critics maintain that Mr ‘Trump’s administration is preparing to defy the courts, however. After it issued the memo ordering the spending freeze, Democratic- led states sued and obtained a similarly broad restraining order. The memo was duly rescinded, but some of the affected programmes remain unable to access their usual funds. Democrats sued again; the administration insisted it was complying and blamed administrative backlogs for the delays. The judge in the case declared the administration in violation of his order on February 10th and instructed it to com- ply forthwith. But legal bickering of this sort is, again, reasonably common. In another incident that prompted breathless commentary, a court barred Mr Musk’s deputies from accessing sensitive Treasury payment systems in an order written so broadly that it excluded the treasury secretary himself. That ruling pro- voked condemnation from several Repub- licans, including J.D. Vance, the vice-presi- dent, who thundered, “Judges aren't al- lowed to control the executive's legitimate power.” Presumably Mr Vance, who has a law degree, understands that it is in fact judges who decide what the president’s le- gitimate power is. It is not hard to imagine MAGA types wilfully intimidating the courts, in the hope of putting more of the president's agenda past them. But in this instance, at least, the judge modified the overly expansive order and Mr [rump’s ad- ministration insists that it is following it. In fact, it is easy to see Mr Trump not as an outlier so much as the energetic heirtoa series of imperial presidents. Mr Obama tried to “defer” immigration enforcement for millions of irregular migrants, succeed- ing with those who arrived as children but not their parents. Mr Biden in effect con- verted student loans to grants, spending almost $200bn that Congress had not ear- Decree spree United States, presidential executive orders in first 100 days - 80 Trump 2nd term 72 orders in 31 days 60 Biden — Trump ist ym ——— 20 al Obama Ist 0 20 40 60 80 100 Days in office Sources: The | ederal Registry; [he White | louse Briefing Presidential power 17 marked for that purpose despite an ad- verse judgment from the Supreme Court. What Mr Trump is attempting, how- ever, is of far greater magnitude: the most agressive agerandisement of presidential power since Franklin Roosevelt in the throes of the Great Depression. In FDR’s first 100 days, Congress granted him im- mense powers to reorganise the national economy, including the authority to set prices. His executive orders were sweep- ing: one sought to confiscate most of the gold Americans owned. Roosevelt's power grab is instructive because it led to a tussle with the other two branches of government that lasted for years. The courts overturned much of Con- gtess’s delegation of power to the execu- tive as unconstitutional, forcing a rewrit- ing of New Deal legislation. A Supreme Court precedent from Roosevelt’s era, Humphrey's Executor vu United States, put limits on the president’s ability to sack of- ficials leading independent agencies like the Federal Irade Commission. When a frustrated Roosevelt proposed in 1937 to pack the court with additional justices, their opinions became much more accom- modating of executive power—a tendency that has largely endured ever since. The aggressive start to the second Trump administration also resembles the tenure of Richard Nixon, who thought that the mighty powers of the federal govern- ment ought to be used to correct cultural decadence (communism then, wokeness now) and exact revenge on the president’s enemies. Nixon clashed mightily with the bureaucracy and the other two branches of government over the extent of his power. Like Mr Trump, he asserted sweeping ex- ecutive privilege to stave off investigations. He saw the Justice Department as an ex- tension of his personal interests and was willing to sack official after official until he found one willing to do his bidding. When Nixon refused to spend money that Con- gress had appropriated for environmental safeguards—asserting a wide power to “impound” funds—Conetess retaliated by passing the Impoundment Control act of 1974, which places strict limits on the pres- ident’s ability to deviate from budgets en- acted by Congress. he law remains in ef- fect today. Indeed, it is one that the Gov- ernment Accountability Office found Mr Trump to have violated when he withheld military assistance to Ukraine in 2019 (which prompted his first impeachment). A sanity-preserving maxim among ob- servers of Mr'Irump is to pay attention not to what he says but to what he does. Better yet, pay attention not to what he says or does but to what the courts allow him to do. By this standard, Mr Trump’s first- month frenzy is likely to fall well short of a constitutional crisis. “Everything turns on whether they re going to play ball with the >> 18 Briefing Presidential power federal courts,” says Jack Goldsmith, a pro- fessor at Harvard Law School. “The courts are not going to agree with all their crazy theories, but they’ll agree with some of their theories.” Although Mr Trump reshaped the Su- preme Court during his first term by se- lecting a third of the justices, his most bra- zen policies are still unlikely to fare well in America’s highest tribunal. His executive order on birthright citizenship, for in- stance, is really a campaign slogan mas- querading as a government policy. It is hard to imagine John Roberts, the conser- vative chief justice, or any of Mr Trump’s three appointees upending the plain meaning of a constitutional clause in place since 1868. Far more likely is that a rejec- tion by the Court will prompt Republicans to campaign for a constitutional amend- ment to deprive children born to illegal mi- erants of citizenship, says Saikrishna Pra- kash, a professor of law at the University of Virginia. Polling suggests that this idea is broadly popular, and could be a useful ral- lying cry at midterm elections in 2026. The Trump administration’s assertion that it can impound funds authorised by Congress is also expected to get short shrift. The conservative majority has con- sistently looked askance at expansions of presidential power at the expense of Con- gress. Although Congtess has over the years voluntarily forfeited to the executive much of its authority to set tariffs and de- clare war, it has jealously defended the power of the purse. Clarence Thomas, the most conservative justice on the Court, has written many opinions over decades that uphold the separation of powers and de- fend Congress’s right to create and fund regulatory agencies like the CFPB. Mr Trump may instead win a narrower victory: the right to run the federal govern- ment as he sees fit. “This Supreme Court is maximalist when it comes to the presi- i il dent’s power over the executive branch, but...it’s not friendly to the power of the administrative state in relation to Con- gress,’ says Yuval Levin of the American Enterprise Institute. The Supreme Court has been warming to the idea that the pres- ident exercises plenary authority within the executive branch (“unitary executive theory” in legalese). /7ump vu United Stales, a ruling issued last year that accorded the president an extremely wide presumption of immunity from prosecution for his offi- cial actions, stated, “Unlike anyone else, the president is a branch of government, and the Constitution vests in him sweep- ing powers and duties.” In practice, that could mean that limita- tions on the president’s ability to fire feder- al officials, including quasi-independent regulators meant to be insulated from poli- tics, are found unconstitutional. As Roose- velt wished a century ago, Humphrey's Ex- ecutor may soon be overturned, allowing Mr Irump to dismiss members of the Fed- eral Trade Commission, the National La- bour Relations Board and perhaps even the Federal Reserve. If the court overturned another precedent, Morrison vu Olson, it could give Mr Trump wide latitude to fire “inferior officers” (ordinary civil servants) for political reasons. Such authority, if wielded with enough alacrity, could quick- ly return the federal bureaucracy to the “spoils system” of political patronage that plagued it in the 19th century. But if Mr Trump does secure the au- thority to conduct an indiscriminate purge of the civil service, or manages to achieve something close to that through a relent- less barrage of executive orders, even if some are held up by the courts, he may not like the results. He is rapidly thinning the ranks. A strict hiring freeze is in place. some 75,000 workers have accepted the administration’s mass buy-out offer (less than the White House had hoped for). The / The Economist February 22nd 2025 threat to lay off all 200,000 federal workers still in their one- or two-year probationary periods, simply because they are the easi- est to dismiss, may lead to further shrink- age. [he bureaucracy could simply seize up, impeding things that Mr Trump likes as Well as things he does not. Mr Musk’s deputies are sleeping in of- fices in the hope of rapidly overhauling creaky IT systems designed decades ago in archaic programming languages. The risk of errors, leaks and crashes is high. Mean- while, the painstaking effort to modernise the federal government may actually be set back. “I’m not saying that in the end there won't be some things they've done that are valuable, but they’re certainly not ap- proaching the agencies in the same way USDS did,’ says Jennifer Pahlka, who helped found the United States Digital Service (now rebranded the US DOGE Ser- vice). “They needed the agencies to work with them, not fight against them. Well, there's going to be zero trust now.’ Tango and cash Mr Trump may also succeed in stirring re- sistance in Congress, whose Republican leaders have so far been meekly acquies- cent. Most Republicans are sympathetic to the idea of radical cost-cutting and are per- haps pleased that Mr Musk is attracting flak for it instead of them. But if DOGE aims its axe at departments like defence or agriculture that steer hundreds of billions to their home districts, they may balk. Lawmakers will need to participate if spending cuts of the magnitude that Mr Musk has promised, in the trillions of dol- lars, are to become reality. But they are aware that such cuts will probably prove unpopular. In fact, because Republicans are keen to extend expiring tax cuts enact- ed in Mr Trump's first term, they are actu- ally preparing to add trillions to the na- tional debt instead of subtracting from it. The budget resolution winding its way through the Republican-controlled House of Representatives would permit nearly $4trn of new debt over the comin g decade, even after cutting over $itrn of spending on the environment, health care and edu- cation (all pointless, politically correct waste, of course). No one can accuse Mr Trump of dis- guising what he aimed to do as president. All of his most controversial actions—the pardons of violent rioters, the purging of the deep state, the trade wars and the over- tures to Russia—stem not from quiet con- spiracies but from loud campaign prom- ises. H.L. Mencken, a misanthropic jour- nalist, once wrote, “Democracy is the theo- ry that the common people know what they want and deserve to get it good and hard.” And that is what is already happen- ing with Mr Irump’s presidency, even in its first month. Only 47 more remain. & The Economist February 22nd 2025 19 Fraud and opportunity WASHINGTON, DC Is Elon Musk’s war on fraud just cover for a power grab? N 1971 RICHARD NIXON listed the qual- Lifcations for a chief of the Internal Rev- enue Service (IRS). “I want to be sure he is a ruthless son of a bitch,” he said, on tape. “That he will do what he’s told, that every income tax return | want to see I| see, that he will go after our enemies and not go after our friends.” In the end the man he appointed, Johnnie Walters, did not com- ply. His copy of Nixon’s “enemies list” went into a safe until it was eventually deli- vered as evidence to Congress. Walters lat- er argued that using the tax system to set- tle political scores would have threatened the very basis of America’s democracy. In the half-century since then, the IRS has remained immune from political inter- ference. [hat is, until February 16th, when the Washington Post revealed that Gavin Kliger, a 25-year-old software engineer as- sociated with Elon Musk’s Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) is to be given access to the IRS’s computer sys- tems. No political appointee has had this since Nixon. The decision followed a court order which has, for now, kicked DOGE out of the equally sensitive Treasury payments system. And on February 17th it emerged that Michelle King, the acting commis- sioner at the Social Security Administra- tion, had resigned over DOGE's access to that agency's data. DOGE'’s rationale for accessing all of this information is to eliminate “waste, fraud and abuse”. Indeed, in the past few 20 Detfunding Reaganism 21 Grumpy farmers 22 Vaccines in Texas 23 RFK junior and ADHD 24 Lexington: loyalty v the law weeks this has become a MAGA obsession. Politicians across the Republican Party have argued that DOGE’s unprecedented access to government IT systems is needed to stop a tidal wave of thievery. Donald Trump himself, during a Fox News appear- ance with Mr Musk on February 18th, said that the billionaire was uncovering “hun- dreds of billions of dollars’ worth of... fraud, waste and abuse”. Fundraising emails sent by Republican campaign groups ask recipients to participate in “au- dits” themselves, by donating money. Yet the Nixon precedent helps to ex- plain why many people—including senior civil servants—mistrust the [rump admin- istration’s campaign. And experts say that although fraud is a big problem in the fed- eral government, and that Mr Musk is right to raise it, what he is doing is unlikely to improve the situation. In fact, some fear that the sloganeering about “waste, fraud and abuse” is designed to create political cover for unilateral cuts of congressionally mandated spending Mr Musk and Mr Trump do not like and for gaining access to sensitive data systems. On the face of it, Mr Musk is right: fraud has boomed in recent years. The gov- ernment is an especially vulnerable target. It is now possible to buy Social Security details online, on the dark web, and then apply for benefits en masse. Crooked doc- >} 20 United States tors can search for potential patients to claim for health care that is not necessary or that they do not deliver. Pandemic-era programmes have been particularly lucra- tive to scammers. But so too are ongoing distributions, such as disaster relief. Artifi- cial intelligence (Al) is helping fraudsters speed up their attacks. According to a study by the Govern- ment Accountability Office (GAO) pub- lished last year, fraud could cost the Trea- sury between $233bn and $521bn a year. That is a lot less than the $2trn Mr Musk has claimed he can cut from the budget, but the higher figure is still nearly 8% of annual federal spending. Another survey of improper payments—including but not limited to fraud—found that the figure in 2023 came to $236bn. Until now, there has been only limited effort to fix this. “Federal government agencies would not use the word ‘fraud?’ says Linda Miller, a former GAO official. Politicians generally refused to acknowl- edge the extent of the problem, she says. Mr Musk, she says, is bringing focus to problems “I’ve been highlighting this my- self and saying in testimonies for years, and no one really listened’. Yet Mr Musk’s claims about fraud so far have had only a limited relationship with the reality of the problem. He has regularly described as “fraud” authorised pro- grammes he doesn't like, such as every- thing paid for by USAID. “You might not want the government to invest in DEI train- ing in Ireland, but that isn’t fraud,” says Ms Miller. “somebody made the decision to invest that money.’ Mr Musk has also raised nonsensical concerns, such as the idea that there are millions of dead people claiming Social Security (the real figure is probably in the low tens of thousands), or that Democrats are conniving to give benefits to illegal im- migrants. Ms Miller says she is worried that his misguided allegations may ulti- mately undermine the fight. There are real reasons why fraud has been tricky to take on, says Danny Werfel, until last month the commissioner of the IRS. The major one is that preventing it creates friction for beneficiaries of govern- ment services, which politicians do not like. He gives the example of power wheel- chairs paid for by Medicare. Criminals re- alised that they could make a hefty profit finding patients to buy these and then overbilling the government. Yet a plan to create a waiting period for claims to be ex- amined was rejected by Congress. It decid- ed “too many innocent people that need their power wheelchair would have to wait”, recalls Mr Werfel. A second problem is that many of the programmes targeted by fraudsters—un- employment insurance and Medicaid, for example—are largely administered by the states. The federal government pays the bills, but it is state governments that assess whether someone is eligible and telling the truth. States have only the barest of incen- tives to prevent fraud, especially if it means spending their own money on bureaucrats to run audits. The “Department of Labour can't just go to a state and go like, do a bet- ter job, right?”, says David Mader, a former chief finance officer at the Office of Bud- get Management. States have to be coaxed. Mr Musk may think that tech will solve these problems. And in theory it could. AI could identify and “pre-audit” risky pay- ments, for example. But to get there, you need civil servants who understand the systems and the laws that govern them. In reality, decades of underinvestment mean the government is not ready. What nobody can explain is why fight- ing fraud requires inexperienced political appointees to have direct access to IRS or Social Security data. The “IRS holds the holy grail of federal government data”, says Don Moynihan of the Ford School at the University of Michigan. Even the IRS com- missioner does not have access. Yet the DOGE man now seeking it, Mr Kliger, is a computer-science graduate with no gov- ernment experience, who cites a far-right writer as his inspiration for joining Mr Musk’s new department. He is an unlikely fraud detective. & Foreign policy Reaganism’s end?
