METADATA:
Source: Economist
Date: 2025-02-25
Categories: Bonds
Title: CHARLEMAGNE Europe 45 One month down, 47 to go Can Europe withstand four years of Trumpian assaul...
ID: 175

CONTENT:
CHARLEMAGNE Europe 45 One month down, 47 to go Can Europe withstand four years of Trumpian assault? N THE ELEVEN weeks between the American election in No- ] eee and Donald Trump’s inauguration on January 2oth, Europe was abuzz with talk of how it might best “Irump-proof” itself. How quaint the idea now seems. In weighty reports and brow-furrowing colloquiums, officials had studiously pondered ways to ensure Making America Great Again did not mean Europe Getting Screwed In The Process. Alas, to no avail. The game-plan worked out in Paris, Berlin and Brussels had assumed that Mr Trump would reboot his old hobby horses: grousing about the continent’s trade surplus and its anaemic defence spending, per- haps throwing in gibes about the manner in which the European Union regulates big tech. What has transpired instead is a puta- tive takeover of Greenland, American officials gangsterishly shak- ing down Ukraine for its mineral resources, diplomatic backslap- ping with Russia's top brass while new Washington grandees pub- licly root for a German party harbouring Nazi-adjacent polit- icians. There are another 47 months of this to endure. European bigwigs had hoped meeting new members of the Trump team face-to-face at a security jamboree in Munich from February 14th would ease the awkwardness. [he opposite hap- pened. J.D. Vance, America’s vice-president, used what might use- fully have been a speech on how age-old allies could better work together in the age of Russian aggression to instead castigate his hosts on their dodgy way of life. He excoriated Europe for suppos- edly stymying free speech, doing too little to control migration, and “censoring” nationalist politicians. Europeans have spent the past three years fretting about the fate of Ukraine at Russia’s hands, and wondering whether the Baltics may be next. Not Mr Vance. “The threat that I worry the most about vis-a-vis Europe is not Russia, it’s not China, it’s not any other external actor,” he said. “What I worry about is the threat from within.” Ouoi!!?? The reaction to Mr Vance'’s speech ranged from bemusement to outrage, then panic. It was more than European pride being wounded by being spoken to in the style their forebears once used to lecture wayward colonies. Rather, Europeans started to worry about the wisdom of having their security underpinned by today’s America. It takes a certain type of politician to travel to a security conference—one being held closer to Ukrainian territory than Washington is to Chicago—to suggest in effect that America did not see the point of defending Europe if its values were not MAGA- compatible. Mr Vance had, during the campaign, casually floated the idea that America should drop support for NATO if Europe tried to regulate X, a social-media platform that happens to be owned by Elon Musk, a key Trump apparatchik. If that had been a shot across the bow, his Munich diatribe was a torpedo aimed squarely at the heart of the transatlantic relationship. Mr Vance’s hectoring did not sting Europe by delivering hard- hitting truths from a friend. Much was wide of the mark, as if dredged up from the shadier bits of the internet. Europe does in- deed have less permissive laws than America on free speech. But what it curtails most often is the kind of social-media bilge, from terrorist content to rape videos and Russian propaganda, that even liberals agree authorities need to control. Assertions that hard-right parties are “censored” sit awkwardly with the fact that a slew of such politicians are in office in Europe, and the Alternative for Germany could win over 20% of the vote in German elections on February 23rd. (Iwo days after being granted an audience with Mr Vance, the party’s candidate for chancellor, Alice Weidel, took part in a nationally televised debate—some censorship.) That some centrist parties until recently misread the public mood when it comes to immigration is true. Many have been punished at the ballot box accordingly. So far, so democratic. As for some politicians choosing not to enter coalitions with hardened nationalists: that may be bad politics, but is hardly un- democratic. (Mr Vance glossed over the fact that his Republicans are completely allergic to dealing with the Democrats whose pres- idential candidate won over 48% of the vote last November.) ‘To bang on about free speech just as his boss was banning the Asso- ciated Press from the Oval Office for calling the Gulf of Mexico just that seemed, at the very least, odd timing. Mr Vance was at his most convincing—a low bar—when he questioned why Romanian authorities annulled an election in November, after a populist candidate came top in the first round supposedly with concealed Russian backing. But coming from a man who clings to the Irum- pian lie that the American election in 2020 was “stolen”? He came, he saw, he harangued A stray line in Mr Vance’s castigation has caused particular angst in Brussels. By wryly referring to “EU commissars”, the veep rekin- dled a concern that the MAGA crowd has a deep loathing for the union at Europe’s heart. That is perhaps unsurprising. It is the EU that administers trade matters on behalf of its 27 member states. Its “commissioners’, as they are in fact known, enforce rules on so- cial media that so rile Messrs Vance and Musk. Co-operation be- tween the Biden-era White House and the European Commis- sion, for example on Russian sanctions, gave Brussels officials added heft. If, as seems likely, the Trump administration freezes them out, it would have an enduring effect on how Europe is run. In the run-up to the Munich melodrama, many Europeans had worried about being snubbed by their most important ally. Many politicos had hoped to persuade Mr Vance to give Europe a seat in the peace talks between Russia and Ukraine, for example. Repeat- ed emergency summits of European leaders were called, to pon- der what the continent must do next. Once they would have fo- cused on how to deal with Russia. The real question now is what to do about America. & EuroFinance’s 10th annual Treasury & Cash Management Summit West Coast March 11th-12th 2025 | Santa Clara a ZF Join influential treasurers creating Al-powered treasuries and shaping the future The treasury landscape is changing. Understand the new approach trom balancing cash flow to adapting to shitting regulations and leveraging next-gen technologies. Get transformative insights trom more than 50 senior-level corporate treasurers across all industries. Speakers include: Arijit Dasgupta Assistant treasurer Mary E. Lovely Senior fellow Peterson Institute for treasurer and legal Viatris International Economics Julianna Achmatow Vice-president, global Calibre Scientific (2) Garima Thakur (an + Treasurer e Debbie Kaya Usha Desai Senior director of treasury Senior treasury analyst . Cisco Creative Artists Agency Palo Alto Networks Register now: westcoast.eurofinance.com The Economist February 22nd 2025 47 Why Britain has so far dodged Donald Trump’s tariffs And why it may continue to do so ONALD TRUMP’S trade officials are Dyan off their feet. China was just the beginning. Since the start of February, the president has announced levies on global imports of aluminium and steel. Recipro- cal tariffs, which will charge countries ac- cording to their own duties on American goods, and “non-tariff barriers” are set to follow. Allies have been menaced as much as adversaries. America’s closest neigh- bours, Canada and Mexico, have been bludgeoned by the threat of 25% levies, for the moment postponed after both agreed to boost security at the border. Imagine for a moment that you were one of those exhausted officials. It might cross your mind that another friendly country—one often said to have a “special relationship” with America—ticks many of the same boxes as neighbours already caught in the cross-hairs, A trade surplus with America? Check. Britain thinks it ran one of about 471bn ($88bn) in 2023, according to its Office for National Statistics (ONS), little different from Canada’s. Counting on American trade? Check. Like Canada and Mexico, Britain’s largest trading partner is the Un- ited States. Headed by a MAGA-sceptic? Check. Mr ‘Trump’s praise that Sir Keir Starmer is doing a “very good job” will fool no one that the two have much in common. And since the wider MAGA-crowd find plenty to grumble about politically regard- i if } rn * % 48 Immigration politics 49 Inflated resumes 50 Bagehot: Happy hawks > Read more at: Economist.com/Britain — Knife crime — Shein, ready-to-list? ing Britain, tariffs might be seen as a useful cudgel. In his recent speech to European leaders assembled in Munich, J.D. Vance, America’s vice-president, accosted Britain for inadequately protecting free speech outside abortion clinics. Yet when it comes to trade, Republi- cans are routinely enthusiastic about the Anglo-American partnership. Robert Lighthizer, the US lIrade Representative during Mr Trump’s first term, called rela- tions with Britain “how trade is supposed to work”. The man nominated for the post this time, Jamieson Greer, testified to Con- etTess in 2023 that Britain was on his list of trading partners to focus on building mar- ket access with. The president himself is characteristically mercurial but tends to suggest it can all “be worked out” with America’s partner across the Atlantic. British politicians might like to credit political nous if friendly ties with Wash- ington continue. David Lammy, the for- eign secretary, is replete with praise for the president—no longer a “deluded, dishon- est, xenophobic, narcissistic” man, Mr Trump is now one of “incredible grace”, says Mr Lammy. Peter Mandelson, famed for his political “dark arts” (and, as a for- mer EU trade commissioner, no stranger to trade negotiation), has been installed as ambassador in Washington. Skilful diplo- macy can no doubt help. But so, too, can >> 48 Britain economic fundamentals. Start with the obvious. Anglo-American trade in goods is broadly balanced—and goods deficits are what seem to enrage Mr Trump. He blames them for hollowing out America’s industrial heartlands. The two countries have alternated between surplus and deficit (one of the reasons Mr Light- hizer said the trading relationship “may be the healthiest one in the world”). Still, a hefty deficit of any kind is typi- cally anathema to MAGA tariff hawks. Here Britain is, unusually, helped by America’s bureaucrats. Due to the intricacies of tot- ting up trade, the numbers calculated by each side differ. Whereas Britain's ONS calculates a healthy trade surplus for the Brits, the Americans’ sums show the oppo- site. Its Bureau of Economic Analysis cal- culates a $14.5bn American surplus in total trade with Britain in 2023. Unsurprisingly, when the topic of trade arises, Sir Keir and Rachel Reeves, the chancellor, are happy to echo Yankee wisdom rather than touting the numbers from their own mandarins. Even without a focus on Britain, of course, Mr [rump’s broader policies may well do damage. A global levy on steel, set to begin in March, might cause minor ruc- tions unless Britain can get an exemption (the ONS reckons it has a small bilateral surplus in that commodity). And if Mr Trump makes good on threats to impose charges on imports of cars, semiconduc- tors and pharmaceuticals, they would hurt carmakers and drug firms, of which Britain has plenty. Worst of all is the Trump ad- ministration’s review of reciprocal tariffs. If it wrongly concludes that value-added tax, a consumption charge Britain levies at 20% on domestic and imported goods, should be viewed as a tariff, as Mr Trump has argued, Britain could be hit with retal- iatory tariffs of 20% or more. Suppose British efforts to win exemp- tions fail. It would probably still not be the disaster faced by some of those near the top of Mr Trump’s tariff hit-list. Whereas a 25% tariff could shrink Mexico’s economy by 2-4% this year alone, and do almost as Oceans apart Share of goods exports going tothe US by value, selected countries, 2023, % 0 20 40 60 80 Mexico Canada Ireland Japan European Union India China Britain Sources: UN Comtrade; UK Irade Policy Observatory much harm in Canada, similar tariffs would affect Britain less. The impact of a 20% tariff on all British goods would be less than 1% of GDP, calculates the Centre for Inclusive Trade Policy, a British think- tank. Exports would fall by around £22bn, a mere 2.6% of Britain’s total exports. Geography matters. All else being equal, trade tends to decline with distance, as transport costs and other barriers grow. And nestled between America and conti- nental Europe, Britain (unlike Canada and Mexico) has easy alternative markets for its goods. Britain sends only 13% of its exports to the United States, compared with over 75% for Canada and Mexico, according to the UK Trade Policy Observatory (see chart). The share of those exports which the UKTPO counts as “vulnerable’—where over half are sent to America—is just 7%. The exhausted trade official might reluc- tantly conclude that the relationship is somewhat special after all. Immigration The nasty party Tough asylum policies will not hurt the government—or help it solve a problem HE OBJECTIONS are flying in. On Feb- T nary 16th refugee groups and religious figures, including some bishops, com- plained that the government “risks playing into a toxic politics”. [he next day a clutch of trade unionists and left-wing MPs com- plained about its “performative cruelty”. Several actions provoked the letter- writers. [he government has introduced a bill to Parliament that would criminalise some asylum-seekers who cross the Eng- lish Channel in small boats. It has quietly changed the immigration rules, in effect barring water-borne migrants from be- coming British citizens. And it has released video images of migrants being marched onto an aeroplane. The government will lose no sleep over the criticisms of its actions, unless minis- ters happen to stay up late, toasting their good fortune. The complaints are likely to draw attention to their efforts to remove convicted criminals and unsuccessful asy- lum-seekers. Enforced removals have risen since Labour came to power, but, annoy- ingly, the public has failed to notice. Not all Britons loathe asylum-seekers. Polling by Ipsos for British Future, a think- tank, last July showed that 46% sympathise with people trying to cross the English Channel, whereas 47% do not. Performa- tive cruelty is politically sate all the same, because of an imbalance in how people The Economist February 22nd 2025 think and vote on the issue. People who de- test immigration are often obsessed by it; people who are relaxed or even welcoming tend to ignore it, and allow other issues to sway their votes. But if ostentatious meanness will not hurt the government, it is not likely to cut the number of asylum-seekers much, ei- ther. Migration researchers have tried to understand why asylum-seekers try to reach particular countries by studying pat- terns of applications and by asking mi- grants. They find that asylum-seekers are usually drawn to countries that are nearby, which contain many of their fellow countrymen. They often do not know, or do not care, about governments’ policies. It is also becoming clear that Britons are not just upset about asylum-seekers. In the year to September 2024, the country re- ceived 99,800 asylum applications. [hat is almost exactly the same as the prior year, when the figure was 98,900, and not much more than the year before, when it was 92,800. Meanwhile concern about immi- eration has soared (see chart). The probable cause is a surge in other kinds of movement. Beginning in 2022, the Office for National Statistics began to re- port extraordinarily high levels of net mi- eration. In November 2023 it estimated that 672,000 more people had arrived in Britain in the 12 months to June 2023 than had left; that number was subsequently re- vised up to 906,000. Students and workers, who found it easier to obtain visas because the government lowered salary thresholds upon leaving the EU, boosted the tally. So did Hong Kongers and Ukrainians, who were given special visas. The new government has offered only vague hints about how it will manage the kinds of migration that drive the overall numbers. The trade-offs are nasty. If Brit- ain cracks down on foreign students, uni- versities might go bust; if it shuns workers, hospitals and care homes will struggle even more than they do at the moment. It is so much easier to boast of toughness against people in small boats. & A growing concern “What do you see as the most important issues facing Britain today?” % of respondents mentioning NHS Economy 50 2015 17 19 21 Pie) Pie Source: Ipsos The Economist February 22nd 2025 CV embellishment Puffed-up politicians Politicians around the world have been found to exaggerate or even invent their credentials. It does not always hurt them N BRITAIN THE chancellor, Rachel Reeves, has lately been in a spot of bother about stories from her past. She has been accused of over-egeing her résumé. She has repeatedly claimed that she spent “the best part of a decade” as an economist at the Bank of England; in fact, she worked there for five-and-a-half years (nine months less than was claimed on her LinkedIn profile). She is also facing ques- tions over her expenses claims during her time with HBOS, a bank, where she worked from 2006 to 2009. All this comes on top of the earlier embarrassment of the discovery by the Financial Times that chunks of her book on female economists, published in 2023, had been copied from other sources without acknowledgment. Ms Reeves’s exaggerations are mild by global standards. All around the world, politicians are wont to puff up their past. Take America. The most glaring recent example is that of George Santos, a former Republican congressman from Long Is- land. In December 2023 Mr Santos became only the sixth member of Congress to be expelled from the chamber. Many of the stories he told about his past, including his education, supposed career at Goldman Sachs, business success or that he was Jew- ish, were fiction, as were some of his claimed campaign expenses. His excuse: “Most people lie on their résumés.” At the very top, President Donald Trump is something of an exaggerator-in- chief. In his campaign for the 2020 election he claimed that he was once named “man of the year” in Michigan; there seems to be no such award. President Joe Biden came a cropper in one presidential campaign for plagiarising passages of a speech from Neil Kinnock, a former Labour leader in Britain; he also exaggerated his academic credentials, saying he graduated in the top half of his law-school class (he came 76th out of 85). Such fibs are no barto becoming leader of the free world. Nor to becoming president of the Phil- ippines. There, President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos claimed to have a de- gree in philosophy, politics and economics from Oxford University; in fact he never completed his degree and was instead awarded a diploma in social studies. In Pakistan a probe in 2010 found that dozens of lawmakers had fake degrees. Elsewhere in Asia, the most prominent leaders have thrived despite questions over their academic records. India’s prime min- ister, Narendra Modi, faces continuing controversy over whether he really has de- grees from Delhi University and Gujarat University. And in China there have long been suspicions that President Xi Jinping had help with his doctor-of-law degree from Tsinghua University. For lesser politicians, it is true, exagger- ating credentials can be career-destroying. In South Africa, for example, Pallo Jordan, an African National Congress MP who had been a minister under Nelson Mandela, re- signed in 2014 because his claimed doctor- ate was revealed to be fake. In Israel Esteri- na lartman withdrew as a nominee for tou- rism minister in 2007 after revelations that she had never enrolled at two universities where she had claimed to have earned ad- vanced degrees. Barry Urban, a British- born MP from Western Australia, was sen- tenced to three years in jail in 2021 for lies about his university qualifications and mil- itary service. The judge called him “the real-life Pinocchio of parliament”. Degrees of dishonesty Europe is rich in examples, too. A spate of PhD-plagiarism scandals in Germany in- cluded the resignation of Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg as defence minister in 2011. Germany's current foreign minister, Anna- lena Baerbock, has faced scrutiny for laps- es akin to those of Ms Reeves. Elsewhere in Chancellor of the exaggeration Britain 49 northern Europe, in Norway two ministers (Ingvild Kjerkol and Sandra Borch, respon- sible for health and higher education re- spectively) stepped down in 2024 for pla- giarising master’s theses. In the south Giu- seppe Conte, Italy’s prime minister from 2018 to 2021, claimed on his CV that he had “deepened” his legal studies at universities that had no record of him. Pablo Casado, Spain's opposition leader at a similar time, faced allegations of dodgy degree claims. lo the east Aleksander Kwasniewski, post-communist Polands second presi- dent, never completed his thesis for the master’s degree he claimed to have during the presidential race in 1995; whether his claim swung the vote remains controver- sial. In Russia President Vladimir Putin ap- pears to be one of the many politicians sus- pected of plagiarising their dissertations. In 2006 Igor Danchenko and Clifford Gad- dy, from the Brookings Institution, a think- tank based in Washington, DC, dug out a copy of Mr Putin’s work and found that more than 16 pages of text were taken ver- batim from an American textbook: “This is plagiarism at any level of US higher educa- tion,’ they concluded. Oddly, officials in Russia have not kicked up a fuss. Back in Britain, Conservatives might want to beware of throwing stones at Ms Reeves. There is no shortage of examples of Tory politicians who have embellished or lied about their past, from Jeffrey Archer (famous for fiction, after all) to Grant Shapps (a former defence secretary who hid a past career behind a pseudonym) and Andrea Leadsom (whose campaign to be party leader was hit by reports that she had bigged up her career in banking). The chancellor’s time at HBOS may offer a bet- ter line of attack—if not for her expenses claims, then for her association with a bank that failed spectacularly. * 50 Britain The Economist February 22nd 2025 BAGEHOT Happy hawrs Why Britons love to poke the bear EW THINGS cheer Britons more than the thought of Russian k troops being turned to dust with the aid of British ingenuity. At the outbreak of the war in Ukraine, Boris Johnson toured the Bel- fast factory that churned out NLAWS, the toddler-size rocket launchers that can whizz a1.8kg warhead towards a Russian tank at 200 metres per second. It was no coincidence that one of Sir Keir Starmer’s first foreign-policy moves as prime minister was to wonder whether Ukraine should be allowed to fire “Storm Shad- ow’ missiles 250km into Russia. It should have been little surprise when, on February 16th, Sir Keir said Britain would be happy to send troops into Ukraine as a peacekeeping force. Voters of all stripes hailed the news. While Europe’s other main military powers prevaricated—and Donald Trump threatened to abandon Ukraine altogether and offered a bear hug to Vladimir Putin—Britain found itself among the most gung-ho on Russia once more. A tough line on Russia is still the closest thing British politi- cians have to a one-way bet. About seven in ten Britons think Rus- sia is a threat. Participants in focus groups compare Mr Putin to Adolf Hitler. A common affection for Russian literature and a deep interest in its history are matched by a near-universal con- tempt for the state from which they came. It is a casual bellicosity, against an enemy that has played the bad guy from “The Charge of the Light Brigade” through to “Goldeneye”. Britain has less to lose from a firm line on Russia. “Londongrad”, where Russian money poured into the city’s foot- ball clubs and galleries, was nice-to-have rather than vital; Brit- ain’s economy did not suck in Russian gas and spit out Mercedes- Benzes. It suffered less than others from Russian crimes. A British citizen was killed by the nerve-agent used in a botched assassina- tion attempt in Salisbury in 2018; the Dutch had 193 citizens shot out of the sky by Russia-backed separatists. For Russia hawks in eastern Europe, the country is an existential threat next door; Brit- ain is a nuclear power at the far end of the continent. Martial might is a point of pride rather than an ugly necessity for British voters. It has had few outlets in recent years. At the end of the cold war, military entanglements became post-modern af- fairs. In Afghanistan Britain joined a war on a noun; in Iraq Britain invaded a country based on an imagined threat. Young British men came home in boxes for unclear reasons. Ukraine provided a moment of moral simplicity: the villains in James Bond movies turned out to be the villains in real life. If the cliche that “Britain has lost an empire and not yet found a role” is banal, it is because the solution has long been obvious. Britain is a European military power and can help deal with Europe’s main military problem: Russia. The war offered redemp- tion for the catastrophic intelligence failure of Iraq, where Bond, a symbol of geopolitical virility to mask post-imperial impotence, was disgraced. By contrast, MI6’s warnings that Russia was about to invade Ukraine were prescient, when other European agencies dismissed the idea. Bond’s back! Russia would expect nothing less. “Ihe Englishwoman shits” is the Russian equivalent of “perfidious Albion”. The hand of Brit- ain lurks behind every other setback. “This is a classic British as- sassination,” said one Kremlin mouthpiece after a Russian general was blown up. Fora country that has long moped about its stand- ing in the world, it is flattering. Russians always believe in Britain, even if Britons do not. War in Ukraine plugged this deficit of British patriotism. Uk- raine provided a post-Brexit role that delighted both sides of the referendum. Rather than cajole fellow EU members into action, Brexit Britain could act swiftly, sharing intelligence and donating weapons. For those who saw Brexit as a blunder, Ukraine was a chance to be a good European citizen. This has done strange things. [he Liberal Democrats, usually a peaceable bunch, are the most determined that Ukraine should not be forced to take a deal against its will. “Fight on!” cry voters in England’s comfiest parts. So there is near-total political consensus on Russia. [hose who challenge it pay a price. After the Salisbury murder Jeremy Cor- byn, Labour's leader at the time, at first refused to countenance that Russia was behind it. When a Labour adviser heard this he kicked a bin, shouting: “That’s fucking going to cost us the elec- tion!” Mr Corbyn’s ratings never recovered. Now the main chal- lenge to this consensus comes from Nigel Farage, who (rather like Mr Trump) frames NATO’s eastward expansion as a provocation. At times, Reform UK offer an unpopular form of populism. ‘ate Putin, love Florence Nightingale, simple as All this comes at acost. When Britain put troops in a divided Ger- many, the country was as much a warfare state as a welfare one. Clement Attlee’s post-war Labour government built “not only a new Jerusalem but a new Sparta’, wrote David Edgerton, a histori- an. In the 1950s defence spending matched health and welfare budgets combined. Now, Britain faces the prospect of increasing spending on defence from 2.3% of GDP to perhaps 3% (though there is a case for more). In cash terms, it amounts to the increase in the universal-credit budget between 2023 and 2025. Jerusalem erew into a megalopolis; Sparta shrank to a village. Whether the combativeness of British voters on Russia is matched by a willingness to pay more is the dilemma facing Sir Keir. [he government insists taxes will not rise. The alternative is spending cuts in other departments, which would anger voters. Politics is the art of solving such contradictory whims. [he geopo- litical problems are immovable; the obstacles on tax are entirely self-imposed. Britons will not choose between NLAWS and the NHS. Labour must offer both. & The Economist February 22nd 2025
