METADATA:
Source: Economist
Date: 2025-02-25
Categories: Inflation, Bonds
Title: SAN FRANCISCO Investors fear that inflation is coming back. They may be right FTER PEAKING in 202...
ID: 180

CONTENT:
SAN FRANCISCO Investors fear that inflation is coming back. They may be right FTER PEAKING in 2022 at 11% year on year, inflation across the rich world has steadily fallen. Until now. As central banks bring down interest rates, headline infla- tion across the rich world is edging up (see chart 1 on next page). It rose from 2.1% in September to 2.5% in December. On February 19th Britain reported infla- tion for January: 3% year on year, up from a recent low of 1.7%. Polish inflation in Janu- ary Was 5.3%, up from 4.7% the month be- fore. German inflation fell to 2.3%, but that was still above the 1.6% reached last sum- mer. AMerican consumer prices rose by 3% year on year, up from a recent low of 2.4%. Some wonder why central banks cut rates before inflation was at or below target, considering that economic growth has barely slowed. “Inflation is like cockroach- es,” John Cochrane of Stanford University recently wrote. “When there are only a few left [it] is not the time to let up.” Is the rich world about to repeat the mistakes of the 1970s? Back then, policy- makers killed most of the cockroaches, but left a few of the hardiest, which then pro- ceeded to breed ferociously. In America in- flation hit 12% in 1974, fell to 5% in1976 and then climbed to 15% in 1980. Central banks failed to adjust policy fast enough to pre- vent an oil-price shock in 1979 from spreading across the economy. Only with an enormous recession in the early 1980s, which policymakers engineered by using a > ALSOINTHIS SECTION 62 Trump’s tariffs and price expectations 63 American credit-card delinquencies 64 Will Europe return to Putin's gas? 65 How Germany can spend big 66 China's reluctant property bail-out 67 Free exchange: Trade threats — Buttonwood is away shedload of borax, did they at last extermi- nate inflation for good. Investors are unsure if high inflation will return. Market pricing points to the Federal Reserve implementing looser monetary policy in the future—and where the Fed leads, other central banks follow. In recent weeks government-bond yields have fallen, which might suggest worries about inflation have eased. On the other hand, a model from the Fed’s Cleveland branch suggests market expectations for inflation over the next year have risen from about 2.2% in september to 2.7% today. The confusion reflects intellectual dis- agreement. Some pundits reckon that the recent rise in inflation is a mirage. Statisti- cians adjust data to reflect events that hap- pen at a particular time of the year (such as the price rises that many shops impose in January). The covid-19 pandemic, which created huge volatility, has messed up these seasonal adjustments, which could make month-on-month inflation readings in January and February higher than the “true” rate of inflation. Others point out that headline inflation always jumps about, owing to volatile commodity prices. Econ- omists at Morgan Stanley, a bank, reckon that the recent wildfires in California may have temporarily pushed up goods prices in America. In January a number of coun- tries, including Belgium and Norway, saw large increases in the price of food, per- >> 62 Finance & economics haps linked to worries over a trade war. Central bankers typically ignore these blips when setting monetary policy. Yet not everyone is so relaxed. Whatev- er the problems with seasonal adjustment, they cannot affect inflation as measured on a year-on-year basis—and that is clearly rising. Moreover, there is evidence to sug- gest that the rich world is genuinely seeing more inflationary pressure. Alternative Macro Signals, a consultancy, runs mil- lions of news articles through a model to construct a “news inflation pressure in- dex”. The global index, which has proved to be a useful predictor of official numbers, has recently risen sharply, especially in America (see next story). Rich-world labour markets also remain tight. [he OECD’s unemployment rate has now been below 5% for nearly three years. With companies competing hard for staff, nominal wages are rising by more than 4% year on year across the biggest economies (see chart 2). Unfortunately, though, pro- ductivity growth is weak. If employers can- not spread their higher wage costs over more output, they have to pass them on to consumers in the form of higher prices. We find evidence of this phenomenon occurring in the services sector, which cov- ers everything from financial advice to physical therapy. Services prices are in- creasing by 4% year on year in the biggest economies, about twice the rate from be- fore the pandemic. In the 18 rich countries that have reported reliable data for Janu- ary, services inflation is off its recent low in 14 of them. In Portugal it is up by a percent- age point. In Estonia, by 3.7 points. Policymakers may add fuel to the infla- tionary fire. The problem is not central bankers, who should be able to resist any calls from politicians to lower interest rates. It is politicians themselves. Donald Trump plans to deport millions of undocu- mented workers and raise tariff barriers, which would push up prices. Leaders else- where are pursuing less extreme policies, but could still stoke inflation. About 40% of rich-world governments are giving their Sa Pumping helium Consumer prices, % change on a year earlier Italy 12 10 United » VP Germany ? States | Wh van \\\ ; A, Af \ \ aaa 4 y oer Vy 2 nd Canada Japan i 2021 22 93 54 05 Source: | SIG Workspace Higher for longer 610 countries, nominal wages, % increase on a year earlier ce haketatat Dookie ke Do Do Deke ee Peon wi ie hes 2000 05 10 15 20 24 Source: Goldman Sachs economies a fiscal boost this year, as mea- sured by the change in the budget deficit adjusted for the economic cycle. Britain’s last budget increased spending on infra- structure, while Italy recently approved one containing tax cuts. Many govern- ments will also retaliate against Mr Trump by imposing their own tariffs on American goods, raising the price of imports. Compared with before the pandemic, companies and workers may react more strongly to these pro-inflation forces. In 2023 a paper published by the Bank for In- ternational Settlements, a club of central banks, discussed what happens in “a tran- sition to [a] high-inflation regime”, in which rising prices become “a more focal point for workers and firms”. Once people have experienced rapidly rising prices, they worry about it happening again. If workers perceive that inflation is on the march, they may be particularly quick to ask for a pay rise. Get pest-control in We find worrying signs in this regard, too. One is interest in inflation, as measured by Google search, which is twice as high as it was pre-2021. Other reasons to worry come from consumer surveys. Even as inflation has fallen a long way from its recent peak, people still expect hefty price rises in the months to come. In December the EU’s in- flation was below 3%. Yet EU citizens ex- pect prices to rise by 10% over the next 12 months—twice as much as they expected in the 2010s. There is a similar “inflation perception gap” in America. Canada’s in- flation rate has been at or below 2% since August. And yet Canadians still expect in- flation of 3% over the next year, compared with 2.4% before the pandemic. Not long ago central bankers were pat- ting themselves on the back for having brought inflation down so quickly. It was enough of a success to have made up for the error of being too late to respond to price rises in the first place. As many homeowners are aware, however, cock- roaches have a nasty habit of returning. & The Economist February 22nd 2025 American inflation Cold weather, hot prices Trump’s tariffs are fuelling consumer worries, which may prove self-fulfilling EROME POWELL’S press conferences— sometimes market-moving events—have attracted less notice of late. With Donald Trump in the White House, the chair of the Federal Reserve faces competition for at- tention. Yet a recent inflation reading has returned prices to the public eye. In Janu- ary America’s “core” consumer-price index, which strips out volatile food and energy costs, jumped by 5.5% at an annualised rate. In response, Larry Summers, a former treasury secretary, called this the “riskiest period for inflation policy since the early Biden administration”, after which infla- tion rose to its highest in four decades. Even more worrisome is that Ameri- cans are starting to expect higher inflation. In February preliminary data from the Uni- versity of Michigan’s consumer survey showed that the median expectation for price growth over the next year had reached 4.3%. Since Mr Irump’s election, that figure has surged by 17 percentage points—the joint-largest three-month rise since 1979, when inflation hit double digits. Some market measures tell a similar story. The one- and two-year breakeven inflation rates, based on the difference between nominal and inflation-adjusted Treasury yields, are up by 1.7 and 0.8 percentage points respectively since November. What is going on? Consumer expecta- tions reflect two main factors: current in- flation and petrol prices. Indeed, in normal times, about 80% of variation in quarterly one-year-ahead inflation expectations is explained by just these two variables, ac- cording to a simple model we have built. Yet when we test the model on this year’s data, it becomes unreliable. If the pre- Trump associations held, median consum- er inflation expectations would be nearly a percentage point lower (see chart on next page). A similar, if less pronounced, pat- tern can be seen with market forecasts. This gap between expectations and the historical trend appears to be driven by Mr Trump’s tariff threats. Consumers’ uncer- tainty about inflation is elevated: the stan- dard deviation of responses to the Univer- sity of Michigan’s survey is at its highest since 1980. Many appear to be taking the president at his word when he warns that “prices could go up somewhat short term”. Those who are opposed to tariffs expect inflation to be nearly 5% in a year’s time, yanking up the overall average. >> > The Economist February 22nd 2025 Past performance is no guarantee United States, inflation expectations for the year ahead, % 6 5 Actual 4 3 The Economist _ model" : 1 0 2 Se SS SS Pe SS SS ee ee ee Le 2010 15 20 29 *As predicted by annual inflation and petrol prices Sources: University of Michigan; [he Economist Consumer inflation expectations are often self-fulfilling. When workers expect higher costs in the future, they seek higher pay today. Meanwhile, shoppers rush to make purchases in anticipation of price rises, increasing demand and _ thereby pushing up prices. Recent data show that such a dynamic may be emerging. Ameri- can wages grew at an annualised rate of 5.9% in January. More than 20% of respon- dents to the University of Michigan’s sur- vey say that now is a good time to buy ex- pensive items such as electronics or furni- ture, as prices are likely to climb soon. That is the highest share in three decades. Fed officials are paying close attention. Lorie Logan, president of the central bank’s Dallas branch, has recently warned that when inflation expectations spiral out of control, restoring price stability often comes “only at a great economic cost”. Cur- rent inflation uncertainty, she added, is “a reminder that expectations won't stay an- chored for ever on their own”. Expectations for the long-term path of inflation are more mixed. The “five-year, five-year forward” measure, which is fa- voured by central bankers and derived from interest-rate futures contracts, is largely unchanged. Yet other similar mea- sures are creeping higher. Market-based forecasts for the five-year breakeven infla- tion rate have edged up. Median five-year- ahead consumer expectations have also climbed, to 3.3%—above their peak during the inflation of recent years. A divide has emerged concerning long- term expectations, too. Democrats now ex- pect a startling 4.2% average increase in prices over the next five years. Research suggests that Republicans’ concems about potential price rises during the covid-19 pandemic led to additional inflation in the years that followed. Mr ‘Trump’s attacks on the Fed, insisting that Mr Powell should re- duce interest rates, are almost certainly a contributing factor to Democrats’ worries this time. Although the president enjoys taking on bureaucrats, he may discover that doing so can backfire. & American finances Unlucky 13 NEW YORK Finance &economics 63 Why credit-card delinquencies have suddenly shot up HEN IT COMES to the finances of American consumers, the viral vid- eos produced by Caleb Hammer, a perso- nal-finance social-media star, provide some cause for concern. His “financial au- dits” of debt-laden guests have amassed al- most 2m followers on TikTok and YouTube in less than three years. Mr Hammer's in- terviewees—typically young and foolish— scramble to justify their wild borrowing habits, to their interviewer's growing ire. Mr Hammer's subjects may represent extreme examples of financial misbehav- iour, but his stock of potential guests is ne- vertheless growing fast. Recent data pub- lished by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York show that the proportion of American credit-card debt in serious delinquency— with balances at least 90 days overdue— surged to 11% in the final quarter of last year (see chart 1). That figure has risen by four percentage points over the past two years and is back to a level last seen 13 years ago, when unemployment was twice as high as it is today. The proportion of overdue debt for car purchases has climbed, too, to a four-year high of 5%. On the face of it, this is cause for con- cern. Before the global financial crisis of 2007-09, for instance, delinquencies were an advance warning of the parlous state of consumer finances. Yet rather than an im- pending downturn, current non-payment reflects a divergence in American house- hold finances—not just between stronger and weaker borrowers, but between stron- ger and weaker lenders as well. Rising interest rates are part of the ex- planation for the struggles of American Borrowed trouble United States Loans more than 90 days overdue, % 15 Credit card 12 Ns fi [Nw - 6 ae gm, Cal = : mantel” A ™N. , Mortgage 2003 10 15 20 24 Sources: | ederal Reserve Bank ol New York: Federal Reserve it’s your * choice Make it wisely borrowers. [he average rate on credit cards has risen from under 15% in 2021 to over 21% today, the highest in modern history (see chart 2). Whereas homeowners are protected from rising rates by extremely long mortgage maturities, credit-card bor- rowers feel them almost immediately. The current rise in delinquencies is concentrated among a group of particular- ly overextended borrowers, who stand out on three counts: for their age, location and creditworthiness. Much like Mr Hammer's guests, the cohort skews young. Some 11% of borrowers between the ages of 18 and 29, and 9% aged between 30 and 39, fell >» 22 20 18 16 14 12 10 Ay Average credit-card interest rate, % 2000 QS 10 15 20 24 64 Finance & economics into serious delinquency in the final three months of last year, compared with just 5% of those in their 60s. Debt strugglers are most likely to be found in the poorest parts of America. Ac- cording to Juan Sanchez and Mataska Mo- ti, both of the St Louis Fed, the share of people with credit-card debt at least 30 days overdue in the least affluent tenth of American neighbourhoods rose by almost seven percentage points, to 18%, from mid-2021 to the end of last year. The share in America’s richest tenth has grown by un- der two percentage points, to 6%. As such, the gap between the two is the largest it has been in at least 25 years. Delinquency is also concentrated among subprime borrowers, who have low- er credit scores. Indeed, research by Jordan Pandolfo of the Kansas City Fed finds that delinquency rates among prime borrowers have not risen at all in recent years, and are still lower than in 2021, when interest rates were at rock-bottom levels. House of cards This sort of concentrated suffering limits the risk of a broader economic slump. Most American household balance-sheets are in a much healthier condition. Al- though the country’s credit-card balances reached their highest nominal level on re- cord in the final quarter of last year, they are—at about 6% of personal disposable income—comfortably in line with the norm over the past decade and a half, and well below the 8% that was reached during the borrowing binge of the early 2000s. Yet just as America’s borrowers are di- vided by the health of their finances, so are its lenders. The country’s numerous small banks report delinquency rates that are more than twice as high as those in the country’s 100 biggest institutions. In the face of stiff competition, small banks have chased customers with lower credit scores since before the covid-i9 pandemic. As a consequence, they report higher charge- offs, via which unpaid customer debts are written off as a loss. As Brian Riley of Jave- lin Strategy & Research, a consultancy, notes, unlike larger institutions, smaller banks lack the resources to closely monitor credit scores, or to chase debtors and quickly resolve delinquencies. With more money becoming overdue, banks are at last beginning to tighten their lending standards. A growing proportion of credit cards are being issued to “prime plus” and “super prime’ borrowers—those with the strongest credit ratings—and a falling proportion to riskier debtors. Fitch, a credit-rating firm, expects delinquencies to stop rising this year. That will be a relief for banks under pressure. But for as long as interest rates stay high, troubled borrowers face a much grimmer situation. For them, any relief looks painfully distant. & Energy politics Hungary for it Will Europe return to Putin’s gas? HE FIRST proper winter in three years Tita already reignited energy debates. With temperatures frigid, winds weak and Asian competition for supplies fierce, the spot price at the Dutch Transfer Title Fa- cility (TTF), Europe’s gas-trading hub, hit €58 ($61) per megawatt hour (MWh) on February 10th, its highest in two years (see chart on next page). Then, two days later, came Donald Irump’s announcement that negotiations over an end to Russia’s war in Ukraine would start “immediately”. Six days after that America held talks with Russia in Saudi Arabia. Little sur- prise, then, that some European officials are eyeing Russian gas. Lower energy bills might revive Europe's industry and placate households. Jari Stehn of Goldman Sachs, a bank, forecasts that an end to the war could lead to a 0.5% rise in European GDP, with most of that coming from cheaper gas. Renewed flows could also encourage Vladimir Putin to sign a peace deal and then stick to it, proponents suggest. Hungary and Slovakia are making the case. In a recent interview with /he Econo- must, Friedrich Merz, who is likely soon to be chancellor of Germany, said that there would be no return to Russian gas “for the time being”, but conspicuously failed to rule out the possibility. Any such deal would represent an as- tonishing turnaround. The European Coming in from the cold The Economist February 22nd 2025 Commission’s position is that it is “not making any links” between the restart of Russian flows and Ukrainian peace talks. Indeed, its stated ambition is to import no Russian gas or oil at all by 2027, so as to re- duce dependence on its hostile neighbour. Most gas deliveries ceased in 2022, when Russia closed down Nord Stream 1, its main pipeline to Europe; another conduit, running through Ukraine, ceased to func- tion on January ist this year. The EU now receives just 10% of its gas from Russia, down from 45% in 2021. Russia, meanwhile, cannot redirect most of its supplies, which takes a heavy financial toll. In 2022 sales of the fuel accounted for 13% of its federal budget. Now they account for just 8%. In 2023 Gazprom, the country’s state-owned eas giant, posted its first loss since 1999. Ultimately, the decision about whether to turn on the taps will be made by coun- tries at both ends of the pipelines and those the conduits traverse: Russia, Ger- many and Ukraine, as well as a few other eastern European states. [heir leaders will come under severe pressure from other countries, too. Who is likely to prevail? More than hot air At cruising speed the European Union consumes 320bn cubic metres (bcm) of gas a year. Ihe bloc’s storage capacity, at around 115 bcm, is equivalent to a third of that. These reserves were nearly full when winter started. Since then, cold weather and supply snags have forced the EU to burn more gas than expected. Its storage is now only 44% full, compared with 66% at the same time last year. Analysts expect it to fall to the high-30% range by the end of winter, forcing heavy users, such as chem- ical makers and smelters, to scale back. In- dustrial output across the EU, already weak, would surely contract further. >> The Economist February 22nd 2025 A bigger problem will arrive in summer. EU rules require storage to be 90% full by November 1st. It is typically replenished from April to October. This year Europe will have to buy more than usual—just when Asian importers are also rushing to restock. Little extra supply exists: a wave of liquefied natural gas (LNG) from Amer- ica and Qatar is expected, but most will ar- rive next year. As a result, the price of gas for delivery this summer is above that for next winter, an anomaly that makes it un- profitable to store the fuel. Germany’s reg- ulator is mulling subsidies to encourage storage. Some countries want to relax the EU's storage target; the European Com- mission is drafting a plan to that effect. Hungary and Slovakia still receive piped Russian flows from Turkey. They and a few others, including Austria, prob- ably also welcome regasified Russian LNG that flows through northern Europe. But they now pay more for their fuel, supply of which is less certain than before. Resum- ing flows via Ukraine, which were paused at the start of the year, would help them. Doing so would also probably push down prices across Europe by reducing competi- tion for supplies. Since Mr ‘Trump’s re- marks about a negotiated peace, prices on the TTF have fallen by 9%. Just reinstating the 15bcm the Ukrainian conduit carried in 2023—well below its maximum—could bring TTF prices down by a third from their recent peak, says Anne-Sophie Corbeau of Columbia University. MUFG, a bank, sug- gests prices could halve again by 2026 were flows through Ukraine to rise from their low level in 2023. Ukraine is adamant that it will not re- new its deal with Russia, but workarounds are being studied. Slovakia's national gas firm is establishing a subsidiary in Ukraine and applying fora transport licence, which may enable shipments from Russia. In a swap agreement with Russia, some of that gas may be labelled Azerbaijani, to help address Ukraine’s concerns. There is a more extreme option, too: re- suming sales through the Nord Stream 1 pipeline, which once transported 55 bcm a year to Europe, and perhaps even Nord Stream 2, a conduit of the same capacity that never entered operation owing to the outbreak of war. The obstacles are formi- dable. Germany, which has been badly burned by its previous openness to Rus- sian energy, would have to give its go- ahead. After sabotage, attributed to Ukrai- nian divers, three of Nord Stream’s four pipes require repair. Lhis would cost hun- dreds of millions of dollars, says Mike Ful- wood of the Oxford Institute for Energy Studies. [he EU’s most Russia-wary mem- bers would lobby hard against greater de- pendence on the country’s energy. Then there is the least predictable fac- tor of all: Mr Trump. On the one hand, Snowball effect Europe, natural-gas spot price, € per MWh 200 200 150 100 50 2015 17 19 21 Source: Bloomberg America’s president wants Europe to pur- chase more LNG from his country’s pro- ducers, as would almost certainly happen in the absence of a Russian restart. More- over, the full return of Russian gas supplies might crush prices around the world, meaning that many American drillers would become unprofitable and billions of dollars of investment in LNG projects would suddenly be worthless. On the other hand, Mr lrump would very much like a Nobel peace prize—and the return of some Russian gas as part of a peace deal might seem like a price worth paying. @ Defence and demand Fiscal Vollgas To spend big, Germany’s next government may need EU help HEN, IN OCTOBER 2017, Wolfgang Schauble left the Detlev Rohwedder Building for the final time after his stint as German finance minister, hundreds of civil servants, dressed all in black, waited under his window in the shape of a giant zero. Their schiarze Null symbolised the bal- anced budget, or surpluses, he had achieved since 2014. It was the apogee of German fiscal self-congratulation. Following an election on February 23rd, the next German government will not have much to celebrate. It may be a coalition of the CDU/CSU, sister centre-right parties, and the SPD, a centre-left outfit: the same erouping that in 2009 introduced a consti- tutional debt brake, limiting deficits to 0.35% of GDP. Its task will be to repair the damage from years of underinvestment, as well as to reform the rules that currently block spending. Russian aggression and Chinese supply gluts only increase the need for state action. Finance &economics 65 Evidence of underinvestment is not hard to find. Germany’s train system makes a mockery of the country’s reputa- tion for punctuality. In September a tram bridge collapsed, thankfully in the middle of the night. Public services are stuck in the 20th century, such is their phobia of anything digital. Estimates suggest that re- quired public investment over the next de- cade amounts to more than 15% of GDP. The good news is that Germany can af- ford to splurge. At 62% of GDP, the coun- try’s public debt is half that of America’s (see chart on next page), and it is not grow- ing. With a deficit of 2% of GDP and pro- jected nominal growth of about 3% in 2025 and 2026, Germany could scarcely be in a stronger fiscal position. The bad news is that large-scale invest- ment is almost impossible under the cur- rent constitution, unless the government cuts back drastically elsewhere. German states are not allowed to run any sort of deficit. The debt brake means the federal budget can go into the red by little more than a rounding error. Exceptions are only eranted in an emergency, such as during the covid-19 pandemic and the energy cri- sis following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. In narrow circumstances, workarounds can be employed. lo release €ioobn ($111bn) for defence spending, Germany’s main political parties in 2022 agreed to put a special fund into the constitution, along- side the debt brake itself. Such a Sovder- vermogen is considered a fallback position for the next round of defence investment or infrastructure upgrades after the elec- tion, should substantial reforms fail. “It’s a temporary fix, time-limited and capped, which makes it easier for the CDU to agree to,’ reckons Florian Schuster-Johnson of Dezernat Zukunft, a think-tank. Genuine reform would be better. The basic option is to exclude defence spend- ing from the debt brake, as a group of economists has suggested. Investment that demonstrably raises Germany's pro- ductive potential, which defence spending does not, could also be exempted, accord- ing to another idea going around. But defence spending is going to need to be higher for some time to counter Rus- sian aggression. Germany's economy also needs more domestic demand in order to rebalance its export-dependent growth model, which will be a slow process. Since neither households nor firms seem ready to borrow and spend—on the contrary, the household savings rate is rising—the state will need to run a sizeable ongoing deficit. So far, few politicians, or even wonks, are willing to countenance such an idea. The government's council of economic ex- perts suggests allowing deficits of about 1% of GDP. That would, however, be limit- ed to times when the debt-to-GDP ratio is below 60%. Only the very boldest dare to >> 66 Finance &economics Camouflaged investment > dream that a new constitutional rule might contain no deficit figure at all, and instead allow governments to set the rule through straightforward legislation. If small parties win enough votes to form a blocking minority, even the most limited reforms may be impossible. Should they hold a third of seats in the Bundestag, they could prevent changes to the consti- tutional rule, as well as special funds to cir- cumvent it. According to 7he Economist's model, there is a 60% chance of a such an outcome, owing to a comeback by Die Linke, which is now polling above the 5% threshold to enter parliament. Although the socialist party has long opposed the debt brake, it may not want to weaken the rule to allow more defence spending. In an ironic twist, Germany might end up dependent on EU debt, which it usually opposes, to fund its armed forces. Since such borrowing would not count in nation- al figures, it would not fall foul of the debt brake. Schauble’s final legacy, therefore, could be an inversion of the country’s nor- mal relationship with the EU. @ Congratulations Schauble General government gross debt, % of GDP 140 United States 120 100 80 ee fee Germany AQ Forecast 00 f 0 ae Se Se Ge Se Se Se oe Oe Oe ee Oe ee 200/ 10 15 20 20 29 Source: IMF “| stimate Debt woes Vanke Panky SHANGHAI China’s leaders appear to have blinked in their face-off with property firms i YOU ARE going to buy a flat in China, common advice goes, you should buy it from a “model student”. That is, a develop- er who has followed the rules, kept debts under control and refrained from excessive expansion. Vanke, a Shenzhen-based firm and one of China’s biggest homebuilders, once qualified as such. Its name appears on lists of China’s strongest developers. It has a good record of completing homes on time. Most important, it is state-backed. So it is all the more surprising that Vanke is now flunking out of school and may be- come the first developer in the current property crisis to receive a bail-out. The plan for a rescue has been widely reported but, as of February 2oth, remains unconfirmed. It is said to include using 2obn yuan-worth ($2.8bn) of local-govern- ment special bonds to help pay off Vanke’s debts that will come due this year, which amount to over 50bn yuan. Insiders reckon the provincial government of Guangdong, China’s rich, southern manufacturing hub, will issue the bonds and use them to pur- chase land reserves and unsold housing in- ventory from Vanke. Other forms of fi- nance may also be made available. Until now, firms have been allowed to default. Evergrande, the world’s most-in- debted developer, did so in 2021, sparking what has been China’s worst property downturn in decades. Country Garden, an- other giant, ran into problems in 2023. Central authorities have not allowed it to be bailed out owing to a fear that doing so would encourage risky behaviour in other firms. Such rescues would also end up sup- porting China’s most reckless capitalists, who have accumulated mountains of debt. Instead, officials have encouraged local governments to buy up unsold homes and fund the completion of unfinished ones, regardless of the builder. If a bail-out for Vanke is forthcoming, China's leaders will have blinked. Al- though the rescue would be organised by local authorities, it would have required the approval of Beijing’s top dogs. What lies behind the special treatment’ Vanke is a hybrid public-private firm: Shenzhen Metro, a state transportation outfit, holds a 27% stake. Since the devel- oper began to struggle last summer, it has been watched as a gauge for just how far officials are willing to let the market fall. Things are already worse than many ex- The Economist February 22nd 2025 pected. In January Vanke’s sales fell by 43% year on year. [he same month Zhu Jiush- eng, the firm’s chief executive, was report- ed to have been detained. He later stepped down, citing “health reasons”. Not long after, the company announced a new slate of executives hailing from Shenzhen Metro and other state firms—a sign that it was coming under greater government control. China’s leaders are loth to let state com- panies go bust. Investors and homebuyers might ask if others will face the same fate. COLI, one of the biggest state builders and another model student, would probably face difficulties raising funds. Home- buyers could stop buying its properties, fearing it would run out of cash before their properties were finished. That might lead to another collapse in confidence. But there is more to the bail-out than state pedigree. China’s property market appeared to be tentatively stabilising in the final months of 2024, owing to state in- tervention. Now things are heading in the wrong direction once again: property sales in 30 of China’s largest cities fell by 16% year on year in the first six weeks of 2025. The central government does not want any further deterioration. Thus the potential rescue is not about a single developer, says Zhikai Chen of BNP Paribas, a bank. It is about “stopping another cascade of finan- cial distress or defaults that will interrupt the stabilisation of the market”. As one of China’s largest developers, Vanke is still building nearly 500,000 homes and is planning another 300,000. A debt default might derail these projects, many of which have already been bought. Tens of thousands of workers could be laid off. Vanke’s model-student days are over; a successful rescue could, however, serve as a model for how officials can avoid the death of their remaining big developers. @ , 5 x Towers blocked The Economist February 22nd 2025 Finance &economics 6/7
