METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: Stocks, Bonds
Title: DAN MCCRUM VistaJet’s cash has dropped to its lowest level since the start of the pandemic after ...
ID: 118

CONTENT:
DAN MCCRUM VistaJet’s cash has dropped to its lowest level since the start of the pandemic after the heavily indebted luxury air- line’s super-rich customers scaled back their travel plans. Flying hours bought in advance through the private jet provider’s sub- scription service were 10.5 per cent lower in the nine months to the end of September than the same period a year earlier, according to financial state- ments reviewed by the Financial Times. That left its cash reserves at $62mn, the lowest level since 2020 when Covid-19 grounded aircraft around the world. The drop in advance sales of flying hours by the Dubai group, a debt-fuelled rival to NetJets whose membership scheme allows customers to book a plane with as little as 24 hours notice, comes after a full-year decline in 2023. Details of the accounts follow reports that VistaJet, whose $4.5bn of debt was used to purchase top-of-the-line aircraft and smaller rivals, has attempted to raise as much as $1bn in new financing in recent months. When sales of programme hours were growing they helped fund Vista’s opera- tions because it receives subscription payments upfront then recognises the revenue only when the hours are used. The reversal of that trend is a head- wind for Vista’s Swiss founder and owner Thomas Flohr, who has long defied concerns raised by some rivals, critics and the group’s previous account- ants that its asset-heavy business model may be unsustainable. A combination of borrowing, $140mn of net losses and substantial short-term liabilities prompted auditor EY to warn on the company’s 2022 accounts that “a material uncertainty exists that may cast significant doubt on the group’s ability to continue as a going concern”. Any such failure could have a big effect on used jet prices if lenders seized and sold Vista’s fleet of 220 primarily Bombardier and Gulfstream aircraft. In that scenario, other owners of planes bought with debt could face requests for more collateral from banks, similar to a margin call, if loan-to-value ratios changed materially with resale prices. For 2023, Vista changed auditors to PwC and altered the conservative depreciation schedules that Flohr has said contributed to Vista's losses. After cutting $135mn from Vista’s deprecia- tion expense, the airline made slightly improved net losses of $139mn for the year, and was judged a going concern. Sales of programme flying hours fell VistaJet’s fleet includes 220 primarily Bombardier, left, and Gulfstream aircraft 13.1 per cent that year to 33,400, which Vista attributed to having had a bumper 2022 as it converted customers of air- lines it purchased into subscribers. Vista has said it typically sells mem- berships on a three-year contractual basis, and the cash from this “underpins the group’s forecasts and provides pre- dictability in operating cash”. In the first nine months of 2024, Vista sold 22,100 programme hours. It also cut 40 “legacy” Cessna planes from its fleet and controlled growth in expenses to break even, generating $1mn of earn- ings from revenues that were up 7 per cent ona year earlier to $2.1bn. Vista also offers charter services using both its own fleet and a “partner net- work” of managed and third-party air- craft, which contributed just under half of the group’s sales. Vista's preferred profit measure of adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation was up 7 per cent to $600mn over the same period. The airline burnt through $114mn of cash in those nine months. Sales of programme hours have declined even as the number of mem- bers rose to 1,250 at the end of Septem- ber from 910 at the start of 2023. With available capacity on a $230mn revolving credit facility, Vista reported access to available funds of $105mn at the end of September. Upcoming financ- ing needs include a $239mn put option liability due in May 2026 related toa previous takeover. A $500mn bond and the revolving credit facility both mature in 2027. At the end of September, Vista carried total liabilities of $6.081bn, against assets of $6.128bn, leaving it with $46mn of equity. Vista said its shareholders and bond investors “take confidence in our steady execution as readily demonstrated by our bond trading levels”, adding that “our client-centric strategy included refinement of our fleet to better service them over the longterm”. 22 February/23 February 2025 * FT Weekend COMPANIES & MARKETS 13 CEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EERE Ee EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EERE EEE EEE EERE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE ERE EEE EERE EEE EERE EEE EE EEE EEE EERE EERE EEE EEE REET EEE EERE EE EERE EEE EEE Ree eee EEE EEE EEE EEE ES EERE EERE EEE EERE EEE EE EERE EE EERE EEE EERE EEE EEE EERE EERE EE EERE E EE EERE EEE EE EEE EE EERE EE EEE EEE EE EEE EERE EERE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE E COREE EERE EERE EERE EERE EE EERE EEE EEE EERE EE EERE EERE EEE EERE EEE EEE REE EERE SEE EERE EEE EEE MEER EERE EERE OH EEE E EEE EERE EEE EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EE EEE EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE E EEE EEE EERE EE EERE EEE CHEE EERE EE EEE EERE EEE E EEE OER EERE E EEE EER EEE EERE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE HERR E EH EED Pee ee ee eee Tee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee ee eee eee eee eee eee ee ee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee ee eee ee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee eee ee ee ee ee eee ee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee ee eee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee ee ee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee ee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee Investors back shake-up o ‘failed’ securitisation in Fund managers cite potential to unlock hundreds of billions of euros in financing for region IAN SMITH, EUAN HEALY AND ALAN LIVSEY — LONDON PAOLA TAMMA — BRUSSELS Investors are urging Europe's politicians to make sweeping reforms to its moribund market for debt securitisa- tion in a move the industry claims could attract hundreds of billions of euros in financing for the region’s economy. Asset managers, including bond giant Pimco and insurers such as Italy’s Gen- erali, have called for ashake-up duringa consultation on EU rules governing the market — where the likes of risky corpo- rate loans, car finance and mortgage borrowing are packaged up into debt securities that can then be sold by banks to investors. Executives and investors say layers of regulation — designed to prevent a repeat of the 2008 global financial crisis — have strangled the market while the US has boomed. They hope that potential reforms in the EU and UK could finally revamp the sector after years of false starts. Brussels launched a consultation in October investigating ways to revive the market and attract more financing for businesses and households while free- ing up the region’s banks to lend more. Akey catalyst for change was an influ- ential report last September by former Italian premier Mario Draghi on trans- forming Europe's economy, in which he argued a bigger market for securitised lending could even “act as a substitute for lack of capital market integration”. Shaun Baddeley, head of securitisa- tion at AFME, a trade group, said: “Over the past decade, the impact of Europe’s unique approach to gold-plating of global standards has become clear and action is overdue.” Some rules were “not fit for purpose and are ultimately hindering economic growth”, he added. Some €245bn in debt securitisation was created in Europe last year, includ- ‘Every finance ministry wants the issue addressed. They all want a more effective debt market ing the UK, with about half passed on to big investors such as asset managers and insurers. Although it was one of the biggest totals in recent years, according to industry body AFME, it pales in comparison with the US where the equivalent of €1.5tn was issued. That yearly US number was bigger than the total outstanding market across the EU and UK on AFME’s figures. In spite of the market consultation, many executives privately argue that European policymakers’ conservative attitudes to securitised debt are still moulded by the subprime mortgage- backed collateralised debt obligations that hit the US economy hard during the Fixed income. Sweeping reforms Key catalyst: former Italian premier Mario Draghi wrote an influential report last September on transforming Europe's economy, in which he argued for a bigger market for securitisation Simon Wohifahrt/Bioomberg financial crisis. “Every finance ministry wants the issue addressed,” said a senior executive at one insurer, speaking pri- vately. “They all want a more effective debt market.” The biggest chunk of placed Euro- pean securitisation comes from collat- eralised loan obligations, which group together dozens of loans to typically risky companies, slice them into tranches with different credit ratings and parcel those off to investors. Others include securities backed by portfolios of mortgages or car loans. But critics of the EU’s securitisation rules say they are tighter than common global standards in a few key areas. EU rules have tried to force many products into a “simple, transparent, standard- ised” (STS) framework with the offer of lower capital charges as an incentive. Market participants argue that the STS definitions are too narrow and so exclude unorthodox assets that are diffi- cult to standardise. In contrast, US markets are flush with inventive products, or “esoteric ABS”, including securitised aviation loans and music royalties. Exclusions are compounded by gen- erally tough capital requirements for products such as CLOs, the industry argues. Insurance Europe, an industry body, said the bloc’s “capital charges imposed on securitisation investments... are disproportionately high compared to other financial instruments with similar credit risk and asset quality, notably corporate bonds”. Industry executives also complain that due diligence requirements are more onerous than in other jurisdic- tions. As a result of these various barriers, esoteric products in Europe, such as securitised football transfer fees, are more often found in the private market, traders say. In Brussels, the European Commis- sion is consulting with the market about potential changes, including whether a broader group of debt securities should come under the STS, and also on capital charges for those investing in securi- tised debt and due diligence require- ments. The UK is also working to foster a big- ger securitisation market, making changes last year to rules on due dili- gence. It is also consulting on making related capital charges more “propor- tionate”. Among the responses to the EU con- sultation, Pimco said the bloc’s securiti- sation market had “unequivocally failed as an alternative credit channel to the broader economy’. The US group argues that permitting EU funds to acquire a greater proportion of the debt securities issued by a single issuing body could boost the market by an additional €100bn to €150bn. Private capital group Apollo esti- mates that addressing a range of issues, Europe’s securitisation market is tiny compared with the US Issuance (€tn) 4 Mm Europe (including UK) US 2008 2010 Source: Afme PPR PRR E ROSE PEPPER SSE See eee Pee Pee eee eee eee Pee eee ee eee eee eee ee Pee eee ee eee eee ee Pee ee eee Pee Pee eee eee, Pee ee eee eee eee eee Pee eee PP Pee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee ee Pee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee ee Pee eee eee Cee CEOS CECE CPPCC CCU U USOT CUCU PEC CUTEST Cee UCT CUCU OCTET CEU C EU UTC EUCE US CUCU CCC U CCT E, CPE UCTS OCCT CE COUPE P ECT C CURES POPE TC UEU CCC E Se CUE C CUT CU ECCT OUR U EEUU ECCT OT SS CECE TCC U TEE Cee PCT Cee UT TRU UCU eee CeCe UCPC ee eee eee eee | Cee eee eee CEP S PPE Pee eee eee Pee eee eee eee Pee eee eee eee eee Pee ee eee eee eee eee eee Pee eee eee eee Pee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee ee Pee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee Equities Singapore's regulator to inject $4bn into domestic stocks for listings boost OWEN WALKER — SINGAPORE Singapore’s financial regulator is planning to inject nearly $4bn into the country’s stock market in a bid to reverse a decline in the number of The Monetary Authority of Singapore announced a package of measures yes- terday to help turbocharge the city- state’s equity market, which has suf- fered from more delistings than initial public offerings in recent years. Among the proposals — which included tax incentives for companies and investors along with a more stream- lined listings process — was a plan to invest S$5bn ($3.7bn) in funds that are focused on the local equity market. Chee Hong Tat, second finance minis- ter and deputy chair of MAS, said the intention of the investment was to “grow the capabilities and to grow the fund management industry here in Sin- gapore’. He added: “We want the mandates to include focus on Singapore equities so that will also help to increase the inter- est and the investments trading in Sin- gapore equities.” MAS will invite domestic and interna- tional investment groups to pitch to receive the investments and will allo- cate the funds in the second half of the year, according to people with knowl- edge of the plans. Like many stock markets around the world, Singapore has been struggling to attract companies to go public in recent years with many of its biggest names opting to list inthe US. The number of companies listed on SGX, Singapore's stock exchange, hit a MAS deputy chair Chee Hong Tat said the move will focus on equities two-decade low last year, falling to 617 froma high of 782 in 2013. Shein, the Chinese fast-fashion busi- ness based in Singapore since 2022, is considering a London listing with a potential £50bn market valuation, which would make it one of the UK’s largest public companies. Several of Singapore’s best-known businesses, including delivery app Grab and ecommerce group Sea, have opted for New York listings in recent years. Last summer, MAS launched a review of its markets with a panel that included the heads of the SGX, MAS and Temasek, the state-owned investment company. This week, Singapore Prime Minister Lawrence Wong set out a series of tax breaks in his budget speech that had been proposed by the MAS review. The group also proposed streamlining the listings process and reducing the review period for any IPO to between six to eight weeks. Loh Boon Chye, SGX chief executive, said: “The initiatives announced thus far will jump-start more capital into the capital markets ecosystem and stimu- late interest in local stocks and listings.” CLOs and UK mortgage-backed securities dominate with investors European securitisation placed with investors in 2024 (€bn) 0 10 20 50 Pan-European CLOs UK RMBS German auto ABS Source: Afme « CLOs=collaterialised loan obligations; RMBS=residential mortgage-backed securities; ABS=asset-backed securities 40 50 ET nd Our global team gives you market-moving news and views, 24 hours a day including reducing capital charges to increase demand from life insurers, could unlock more than €1tn in financ- ing for the EU economy. It pointed to regulatory data showing that the European life insurance indus- try held less than 1 per cent of invest- ment assets in securitisations while counterparts in the US held 17 per cent, even though the industries were of simi- lar size. Though gross European investment in CLOs totalled €49bn last year, the net figure, when taking account of maturing CLOs, was considerably less at €23bn, according to Bank of America. “One of the biggest confusions about CLOs [comes from] people looking at the value of issuance and assuming the market is booming,” said Alex Batchvarov, an international structured finance strategist at BofA. Changes are “long overdue”, he added. Regulators have long focused on insurers’ ability to liquidate assets in a crisis, which could be challenged if their long-term securitised debt is held in hard-to-sell securities. Part of the European Commission’s consultation asks about risks to finan- cial stability from proposed changes. But Generali, Italy’s biggest insurer, said the industry’s buy-and-hold strat- egy for securitised debt means they do not have to sell in volatile markets. “Nobody is advocating for a return to the pre-global financial crisis era of regulation,” said AFME’s Baddeley. “What is required is making the rules risk-sensitive, proportionate and rele- EEE EEE EEE TEER EERE EEE TEE EEE EET EEE EET EET EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EET EET TERETE EEE ETE EEE EEE EET ETRE ETE EEE ERE EERE TERETE ETE OTe ee CEE EERE EEE EEE ERE REET EEE EEE EEE EEE EE CEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EERE EERE EERE EERE EEE EEE EEE EE EERE EERE EEE EERE ERE EEE EERE TERETE OOO e eee SEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EERE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE RHEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE HOE E OO Fixed income Four banks fined £100mn over sharing sensitive information on UK gilt trades
