METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: Bonds
Title: PROJECTIONS 1965 '70 80 90 10 ‘20 30 ‘40 50 “Defense spending after 2023 extrapolated on the assu...
ID: 72

CONTENT:
PROJECTIONS 1965 '70 80 90 10 ‘20 30 ‘40 50 “Defense spending after 2023 extrapolated on the assumption that it remains consistently 48% of total discretionary (the average of 2014-23). tilian elite. It also raised funds by selling asientos, short-term IOUs, to bankers in Genoa and elsewhere. The system was stable until 1600, when Spain began to illustrate Adam Ferguson’s point. The total stock of juros grew by a factor of 3.4 between 1594 and 1687, at a time when the revenues of the crown stagnated. Payments on the ju- ros went from absorbing half of Spanish revenue in 1667 to 87% just 20 years later. As Philip IV told the Council of the Indies even earlier, in 1639, “I recognize that the introduc- tion of the juros has caused the enormous ruin we experience.” Between 1607 and 1662, the Source: Congressional Budget Office been privatized. Instead of selling bonds, the French crown sold offices, creating a bloated public payroll. London, by contrast, established not only a central bank and a relatively efficient tax system but also a thriv- ing bond market. French intervention in support of the American colonists, culminating at Yorktown in 1781, may have ap- peared a strategic masterstroke. But the fiscal consequences took Louis XVI’s government far beyond the lim- its of Ferguson’s Law. In 1780, debt service absorbed two-fifths of total expenditure, the war department just a quarter. By 1788, debt service rose above half of total expenditure. The history of the 19th century furnishes further examples: the Ot- toman Empire, Austria-Hungary, Tsarist Russia. But the best example of all—and the one from which Americans have the most to learn— is that of Great Britain. The Economics of Appeasement On three occasions in its history, major wars against continental ri- vals (first France between 1792 and 1815 and then Germany twice in the 20th century) drove the British na- tional debt above 150% of GDP. At times, despite the breadth and depth of the U.K. bond market, this led to violations of Ferguson’s Law, for example in the 1820s and again in the 1870s. But the general trend in the 19th century was for the costs of debt service to decline, thanks to the pro- ductivity gains of the Industrial Rev- olution and the peacetime surpluses run by Victorian chancellors of the exchequer. This left room for the re- armament that ensured Britannia ruled the waves, as well as for the largest land empire in history. Un- fortunately, because Britain’s army remained small by continental stan- dards, by 1914 London could not pre- vent Germany from launching its first bid for mastery in Europe. In the wake of World War I, debt service exceeded military spending every year from 1920 to 1936. It was this breach of Ferguson’s Law, much more than any trust or sympathy toward Adolf Hitler, that inspired the policy of “appeasement.” Of par- amount importance to the Treasury was the concern that higher spend- ing on armaments would jeopardize Britain’s precarious recovery from the Great Depression. In seeking to appease Hitler, Brit- ish Prime Minister Neville Chamber- lain failed, of course, to deter him and his confederates from launching another world war. Despite the fact that U.K. defense spending rose above debt service in 1937, the sig- nal was not sufficiently strong to dissuade Hitler from invading Po- land, even when accompanied by an explicit pledge of support for Poland in the event of a threat to its inde- pendence. The most that belated re- armament was able to achieve was to ensure that the British military survived the retreat from Dunkirk and won the Battle of Britain. Another world war left Britain with another mountain of debt. In the decades after 1945, Britain re- lied much more on unanticipated in- flation than on productivity growth to keep the costs of debt service be- low the costs of defense. The British case illustrates that defying Ferguson’s Law need not doom a great power to swift de- cline. Britain crossed the limit in three periods after the mid 19th century, but in each case it was able to cross back. Decline inexorably came, as inflation and low produc- tivity growth forced successive gov- ernments to give up colonies and shrink the armed services. Still, the United Kingdom avoided defeat and immediate dissolution—the fate of many another great power. Warning Signs for the U.S. What are the implications for America today? Geopolitically, the U.S. finds itself in a situation com- parable with that of Britain in the 1930s. Its military commitments are global, as has been true since 1945, and it confronts a new axis of au- thoritarian powers. Yet America’s fiscal position is far more con- strained today than the trend of real interest rates in the U.S. seems less likely to be downward than it was in 1930s Britain. Whereas British real interest rates fell in the Depression, in America they are currently pro- jected by the CBO to rise from 1.7% in 2024 to 1.9% in 2026, declining slightly to 1.8% in 2034. The real growth rate of the economy is pro- jected to be almost identical. In this scenario, America’s debt will cost more to service in the period 2025-2035 than it did in 2015-2025, when the average real rate was 0.3%, especially because the stock of debt will continue to grow. Finally, the U.S. today is encum- bered with an expensive welfare system designed for a society with a higher fertility rate and lower life expectancy. Entitlement programs such as Social Security and Medi- care are now the biggest items of federal expenditure. They will only become more expensive as the pop- ulation ages. History suggests that any sus- tained period when a great power spends ever before. me America’s more on anterest .S. government is P payments than on now in violation of expensive military capabilities emeusons Law and welfare system is likely to fee its is likely to move . strategic rivals chal- farther beyond its will only become Tense its position. crucial limit in the more costly as The tension between coming decades. Can the U.S., like Victorian and in- the population ages, making it “guns and coupons” (as the interest-bear- ing parts of bonds terwar Britain, find h arder to reduce used to be known) a way back? Can it . may also undermine do even better, national debt. its domestic stabil- successfully deter- ring its foes—as Britain failed to deter Germany— and averting the possibility of a ru- inous World War III? Or is America doomed to follow Habsburg Spain, the Ottoman Empire, Bourbon France and Austria-Hungary down the path of default, depreciation and imperial decline—even revolu- tion? There are four important differ- ences between Britain in the 1930s and the U.S. in the 2020s, and all of them work to America’s disadvan- tage. First, the term structure of U.S. debt is shorter, making it more sensitive to changes in interest rates. That makes it inherently harder to “inflate debt away” like the U.K. after World War II. Sec- ond, much more of it is in the hands of foreign investors. Third, ity, as governments try and fail to meet the competing demands of generals, bondholders, taxpayers and welfare recipients. In the absence of radical reform of America’s principal entitlement programs—which successive admin- istrations this century have either failed to achieve or ruled out—the only plausible way that the U.S. can come back within the limit of Fergu- son’s Law is therefore through a productivity miracle. Today, it may seem that the world is divided between a mighty American “Trumpire” and the feeble ¢ foreign competition. But the real © contest of the second quarter of the 2lst century may be between the much-vaunted economic promise of artificial intelligence—and history, in the form of Ferguson’s Law. OS CHIOSSONE/ZUMA PRESS; ASSOCIATED PRESS; HULTON ARCHIVE/GETTY IMAGES CLOCKWISE FROM TOP: THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. KKK *K Saturday/Sunday, February 22 - 23, 2025 | C3 REVIEW
