METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: Stocks, Bonds
Title: CITY OF ROSWELL Trump administration placed a temporary freeze on federal loans and grants, affec...
ID: 36

CONTENT:
CITY OF ROSWELL Trump administration placed a temporary freeze on federal loans and grants, affecting programs such as Head Start. It’s not clear how much of the criticism at town halls is coming from voters who op- posed Trump before he took office. One Republican aide in- volved in organizing a recent town hall said the complaints about executive orders and DOGE appeared to be coming mostly from moderates, liber- als and independents. The lo- cal Democratic Party encour- aged people to attend the Fitzgerald event in Wisconsin with signs, according to a local report. “Normally the folks who are angry are the ones who call. We are getting lots of calls about Musk and lots of calls thanking me for sticking up for Ukraine,” said Rep. Don Bacon (R., Neb.), who repre- sents a closely divided district and has pushed back on Trump’s comments blaming Ukraine for Russia’s invasion. “When I’m out and about though, I hear from folks who are happy with DOGE.” Some of the town halls have attracted an outsize number of participants, catching lawmak- ers’ attention. More than 1,000 people joined a tele-town hall for Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R., Alaska) on Wednesday. The senator apologized to those who were unable to get on the call, saying the system had been overwhelmed. The last caller was a woman who identified herself as Dottie in Soldotna. She told Murkowski she was a lifelong Alaskan who was “frustrated, angry and heartbroken” after her son, a 30-year career Na- tional Park Service employee, was fired, four years from re- tirement. A new CNN poll showed that 52% of adults thought that Trump had gone too far in using his executive power, compared with 39% who said it had been about right. Trump and his administra- tion show no sign of slowing down after an ambitious first month in office. This past week, Trump signed executive orders to expand his power over independent regulatory agencies, end federal benefits for people in the country ille- gally, and halt Covid-19 vac- cine mandates in schools. Ina post to Truth Social, Trump also ordered the Justice De- partment to remove all “Biden era” U.S. attorneys. Trump got into a war of words with Ukrainian Presi- dent Volodymyr Zelensky. Trump called the Ukrainian president a “dictator” and blamed Ukraine for Russia’s in- vasion three years ago—state- ments that blindsided some congressional Republicans. Upon announcing plans to end New York City’s conges- tion pricing program, Trump posted on Truth Social, “long live the king!” He also raised the idea of seeking a third term, even though that is barred under the Constitution, saying at a White House event oie GOP Rep. Rich McCormick, right, appeared at a town hall in Roswell, Ga., on Thursday. “Should I run again? You tell me.” Meanwhile, DOGE contin- ued to make sweeping cuts to the federal workforce, includ- ing thousands of Internal Rev- enue Service employees who were let go in the middle of tax season, and slashing some benefits that drew bipartisan support, like a fund that gave aid to 9/11 responders and survivors. “The overwhelming re- sponse from the American people is support for what this administration is doing,” said White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt. “There should be no secret about the fact that this administration is committed to cutting waste, fraud and abuse. The president campaigned on that promise.” The Pentagon on Friday paused plans to potentially fire up to 55,000 temporary or pro- bationary civilian personnel, according to defense officials and congressional staffers, af- ter lawyers for the services cited a longtime federal statute requiring the department con- duct a review before any major personnel plans.The Pentagon later said it plans to continue with some job cuts, eventually eliminating as much as 8% of the workforce. “T am all for efficiency and ultimately downsizing the fed- eral government, but firing large numbers of new FBI agents is not the way to achieve this,” said Sen. Bill Cassidy (R., La.), in a post on X on Feb. 15. Coinbase, SEC Reach Agreement Continued from Page One Still, the retreat represents a rare instance of regulators re- versing their position on a significant issue for investors. Coinbase had appealed in January a federal district court’s ruling that declined to throw out the SEC’s case. That appeal will now be moot. An SEC spokesman de- clined to comment. The SEC is making peace with crypto firms after Coin- base and others poured mil- lions of dollars into helping elect lawmakers friendlier to the industry. Trump is a major backer of crypto and last month sold his own digital to- ken that has a market value of about $3.4 billion. Some regulation advocates said it is a mistake for the SEC to surrender to an unregu- lated industry that has been vulnerable to fraud and conta- gion. The crypto market was rocked in 2022 by a series of bankruptcies, “clearly gone too far.” “In ev- ery crypto cycle, there is a ‘get rich quick’ crowd that comes and goes, and learns this les- son the hard way,” he said Wednesday in a post on the social-media platform X. “Don’t break the law! And don’t try to get rich quick.” The SEC has already moved to break up the special en- forcement unit that was de- voted to investigating crypto companies. Former SEC Chair Gary Gensler, who stepped down in January, nearly dou- bled the unit’s size as he pur- sued legal action against ex- changes such as Coinbase, Binance and Kraken to force them to adopt similar investor protections to those imposed on Wall Street. Acting SEC Chairman Mark Uyeda said Thursday that the unit would have a broader re- mit and “deploy enforcement resources judiciously,” includ- ing investigating fraud involv- ing crypto assets. The Coin- base lawsuit didn’t involve any fraud claims. Uyeda said last month that a new SEC task force is con- sidering how to move away from Gensler’s approach to- ward the crypto market. The SEC appears poised for a much smaller role policing the industry. the implosion House and Sen- fecenta Company said Ss java Charges against, COFCErS at the een a the founder of agency would lead to most exchange, ana FECOMMeNd eens falling prices. suit’s dismissal. _ treated as com- The agency is also backing away from po- sitions it took during the first Trump administration, when its chairman, Jay Clayton, launched an enforcement cam- paign against dozens of crypto assets that he said were ille- gally marketed to investors without the SEC’s oversight. “It’s going to embolden law breakers everywhere,” said Dennis Kelleher, the president of Better Markets, a pro-regu- lation group that backed a tough approach to crypto. “The SEC is supposed to be the cop on the beat and here it’s unilaterally disarming.” The crypto market has been on a tear since Trump won the presidential election. Bitcoin soared past $100,000 in De- cember after Trump nomi- nated crypto ally Paul Atkins to lead the SEC. Other smaller and riskier tokens also surged, while “memecoins,” a type of cryptocurrency created based on internet memes, prolifer- ated. Coinbase has been quick to list those tokens, which typ- ically serve no economic pur- pose other than speculation. Coinbase CEO Brian Arm- strong himself has warned that some meme coins have modities. That would probably give oversight of more crypto assets to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, a much smaller agency than the SEC. The securities agency is still litigating with Binance and Kraken. This month regulators asked a federal court hearing the Binance case in Washing- ton, D.C., to put it on hold, cit- ing the opportunity to resolve the case through the work of the agency’s task force. Dismissal of the SEC’s case would create a more favorable environment for Coinbase’s growth, allowing the company to list more tokens and offer more products, analysts said. The company delivered a blowout fourth-quarter earn- ings report as major crypto- currencies rallied after the U.S. election. Coinbase is also diversify- ing into areas beyond trading and earning more revenue from products such as stak- ing, which allows investors to earn interest on their tokens. The SEC lawsuit had alleged that Coinbase’s staking pro- gram was an illegal sale of se- curities, which the company has denied. Buffett Is Hoarding Lots of Cash Continued from Page One company’s investing moves have involved selling a lot of stock. Berkshire was a net seller of equity securities in the past eight reported quar- ters, and a regulatory disclo- sure of its U.S. stock positions in December suggests the sell- ing extended to a ninth period. Buffett’s storied reputation means his company’s trades are watched like those of few inves- tors. When Berkshire sells, it can spark worries that the out- look for stocks is poor. Financial advisers at Edward Jones have voiced their concerns to James Shanahan, a senior equity re- search analyst at the firm who covers Berkshire. “T hear that from our advis- ers: Why should we be buying stocks if Warren Buffett’s not buying stocks?” Shanahan said. Close observers of Berkshire think about the rise in cash this way: Within the company’s hunting ground of large, high- quality businesses in industries Buffett understands, prices have risen too high for the stock picker to feel confident an in- vestment would lead to worth- while returns for Berkshire and its shareholders. Buffett and his deputies are searching for bargains while stocks trade at records. The S&P 500 notched its lat- est all-time high Wednesday and has advanced 2.2% in 2025 after two years of an- nual gains above 20%. The broad U.S. stock index re- cently traded at 22.3 times its = =N BUFFETT ” ra) rf a & a ws = G lo} 8 2 =" < 4 Zz a = =x & Zz Observers are poised to study the Berkshire Hathaway chairman’s annual letter for insights about the stock market. projected earnings over the next 12 months, above a 10- year average of 18.6, accord- ing to FactSet. At Berkshire’s most recent annual meeting, in May, Buf- fett weighed in on the com- pany’s tower of cash: “We’d love to spend it, but we won’t spend it unless we think we’re doing something that has very little risk and can make us a lot of money.” “We only swing at pitches we like,” he added later in the session. “It isn’t like I’ve got a hunger strike or something like that going on. It’s just that things aren’t attractive.” If Buffett did find a com- pany that looked appetizing, he might well have the cash to buy it in full. Based on its third-quarter report, Berkshire could easily pay the market price of all but the biggest U.S. companies, with ample cash to buy a household name such as Deere, United Parcel Service or CVS Health. Buffett watchers tend to say the drumbeat of stock sales doesn’t amount to a call on the overall market. Rather, they said, it has resulted from case-by-case determinations that individual companies’ prospects don’t merit the price at which other traders are willing to take the shares off Berkshire’s hands. One reason behind the cash buildup is Berkshire’s extensive sales of Apple stock, which has traded in recent years at much richer valuations than when Buffett’s company was estab- lishing its position from 2016 through 2018. Berkshire slashed its stake in the iPhone maker for four consecutive quarters starting in late 2023, reducing its own- ership of Apple from nearly 6% to 2%, according to Fact- Set. Berkshire held off on fur- ther Apple sales in the fourth quarter, and the consumer- electronics company remained its largest stockholding at the end of 2024 with a market value of $75 billion. The move to lighten a posi- tion that had grown to an out- size share of Berkshire’s stock portfolio is seen by some ob- servers as part of the 94-year- old chief executive’s efforts to Berkshire Hathaway cash as percentage of assets, quarterly* 25% 20 15 10 0 1998 2000 ‘05 Berkshire Hathaway’s net purchases of equity securities, quarterly $50 billion Anegative number means net sales of equities a ; 202021 22 | '23 ‘10 15 ‘20 ‘24 Share-price and index performance over the past five years, weekly 125% 100 75 50 25 Berkshire Hathaway (Class B) S&P 500 24 2021 22 '23 24 '25 “Cash is defined as cash and equivalents plus Treasury bills, minus payables for purchases of Treasury bills Sources: Dow Jones Market Data (cash, net purchases); FactSet (net purchases, performance) smooth the transition when his designated successor, Greg Abel, eventually takes the reins. “Some might say that this is housekeeping, that he’s cleaning everything up and getting ready to hand over the company,” Shanahan said. “He would want to give Greg Abel a good starting point and not have any legacy problems.” Also contributing to the climb in cash: Stock buybacks have ground to a halt, with Berkshire repurchasing no stock in the third quarter for the first time in several years. The company said it can buy back stock whenever Buffett “believes that the repurchase price is below Berkshire’s in- trinsic value, conservatively de- termined,” as long as its hold- ings of cash and Treasury bills wouldn’t fall below $30 billion. Berkshire’s stock has rallied to start the year, with both Class A and Class B shares closing at records this week. The company’s market value passed $1 trillion for the first time last year. And the cash pile itself is making money. Berkshire re- ported $8 billion in interest and other investment income in its insurance operations in the first nine months of 2024, along with $3.8 billion in in- come from dividends. Berkshire’s streak of net stock sales has coincided with a climb in the overall market. Since the end of the third quar- ter of 2022, the S&P 500 has risen 68%. But longtime shareholders don’t seem too anxious about missed opportunities. They said they trust Buffett to decide how to use Berkshire’s hoard. Nor are they clamoring for the company to release cash through a dividend. “We own Berkshire to see the capital be reinvested,” said Darren Pollock, portfolio man- ager at Cheviot Value Manage- ment. “We own it for the hope that the big whale will come along and they’ll be able to snare it. That just is taking a long time, obviously.” THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. wok Saturday/Sunday, February 22 - 23, 2025 | A7 It's time for qualified” to mean qualities, not just a bachelor's degree. Keith, Data Analyst, Google Career Certificate Graduate, STAR Tear the paper ceiling that is keeping you from discovering over 70 million STARs: workers Skilled Through Alternative Routes that are being held back by degree screens, stereotypes and more. Find out how STARs can meet your talent needs. #HireSTARs STARS:
