METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: Bonds
Title: By ELENA VARDON The U.K.’s competition reg- ulator is fining Citi, HSBC, Morgan Stanley and Royal...
ID: 68

CONTENT:
By ELENA VARDON The U.K.’s competition reg- ulator is fining Citi, HSBC, Morgan Stanley and Royal Bank of Canada a total of 104.5 million pounds, equiva- lent to $132.3 million, after a probe into the exchange of sensitive information about government bonds. The Competition and Mar- kets Authority said Friday it reached a settlement with the four banks in separate cases about the conduct of certain traders on specific instances between 2009 and 2013. The watchdog said its in- vestigation found that individ- ual traders shared competi- tively sensitive information about the pricing of U.K. gov- ernment bonds—gilts and gilt asset Swaps—on _ various dates. The CMA said unlawful exchanges of information took place in one-to-one chat room conversations between certain traders at Citi and Deutsche Bank, Citi and Morgan Stan- ley, Deutsche Bank and HSBC, Deutsche Bank and Morgan Stanley and Deutsche Bank and RBC. “Tt is important that com- petitors decide their price and strategies independently in order to ensure effective com- petition in a market,” the CMA said. Deutsche Bank was also in- cluded in the probe but granted immunity for stepping forward and providing infor- mation to the regulator. “Deutsche Bank proactively reported the issue to the U.K. authority and cooperated fully in the subsequent investiga- tion,” a spokesperson for the German lender said. The banks have since imple- mented compliance measures to prevent similar incidents from happening again, the CMA said. The settlement ends the inquiry that opened in late 2018. In May 2023, the regula- tor said it had provisionally found that the five banks had broken competition law. Citi received a reduced fine of £17.2 million after success- fully applying for leniency during the investigation. “We are pleased to resolve this longstanding matter with the CMA from over a decade ago,” a spokesperson said. A spokesperson for RBC, which was fined £34.2 million, said the bank was pleased with the resolution. “The conduct in question was historic, and our compliance environment has significantly enhanced over the last decade since it oc- curred,” the bank said. HSBC will have to pay a £23.4 million fine and said it was happy to put the investi- gation behind it. “Since that period we have transformed our controls, and the CMA it- self has acknowledged we now have a robust compliance pro- gram,” a bank spokesperson said. Morgan Stanley—which was handed a £29.7 million fine—said it had taken a com- mercial decision to draw a line under the investigation. “The CMA has made no findings re- garding impact on the market or of financial benefit to the firm,” a spokesperson said. Private Equity Sees Rebound in Dealmaking
