METADATA:
Source: Barrons
Date: 2025-02-24
Categories: general
Title: BY CRAIG MELLOW resident Donald Trump’s esti- mates of Ukraine’s strategic min- eral wealth are p...
ID: 15

CONTENT:
BY CRAIG MELLOW resident Donald Trump’s esti- mates of Ukraine’s strategic min- eral wealth are probably much exaggerated. Way back on Feb. 3, when Washington and Kyiv were still al- lies, Trump told reporters that the U.S. could reap $500 billion from a half-share of Ukraine’s “rare earths and other things.” That volume of mining would require massive, long-term greenfield investment that investors will hardly sink into a war- torn, energy-challenged nation with a hos- tile superpower breathing down its neck. Postwar Ukraine could meaningfully con- tribute to more-mature, but still critical, supply chains like uranium and titanium. Trump’s interest in Ukraine’s subsoil is understandable. China’s strongest weapon in an escalating trade war is its near-mo- nopoly on so-called rare-earth metals like terbium and dysprosium that are essential to modern electronics and weaponry alike. Ukraine could in theory dent that domi- nance. It sits on 23 of the 50 minerals the U.S. government defines as essential, says Nataliya Katser-Buchkovska, founder of the Ukrainian Sustainable Investment Fund. It has a deep bench of experienced mining engineers, adds Ksenia Orynchak, CEO of the National Extractive Industries Association in Kyiv. And, of course, the European Union is next door. Obstacles are formidable, however. A third of Ukraine’s mineral resources are in territory currently occupied by Russia, estimates Katser-Buchkovska. Rare earths in raw form aren’t actually rare. “They are everywhere,” notes Grace- lin Baskaran, director of the critical miner- als security program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. Explo- ration is under way in more stable juris- dictions from Brazil to Namibia. Commercially viable rare-earth mining, not to mention processing, requires abun- dant cheap energy. It also requires a high tolerance for environmental damage: Ev- ery ton of rare earths minded produces 20,000 tons of toxic waste, according to the Harvard International Review. It takes lots of time, too: The average mining proj- ect of any kind globally takes 15 years to produce its first ore and pays back over at least 40 years, says Baskaran. “The private sector is not racing to make that kind of investment next door to [President Vladi- mir] Putin,” she says. Ukraine won't have to start from scratch everywhere, though. The country was a power in titanium before Russia’s February 2022 invasion. It provided most of the raw metal, or sponge, to Russian producer VSMPO-AVISMA, which in turn supplied 15% or so of the global mar- ket. Titanium’s combination of lightness and strength makes it essential for aero- space and power-generating turbines. Postwar Ukraine could expand uranium mining, riding a global resurgence of nu- clear power, predicts Koray Kése, founder of supply-chain consultant Kése Advisory. The currently dominant uranium source is Russian proto-satellite Kazakhstan, with nearly half of global production. Western customers would be happy to diversify, particularly France, which has up to 14 new nuclear reactors on the drawing board and just lost a reliable supplier thanks to a coup in its ex-colony Niger. Ukraine’s biggest uranium deposits are mostly outside occupied territory, in Myko- laiv and Kirovohrad provinces, Kése adds. Ukraine led the world in production of neon gas before the war. This element is used in excimer lasers that etch minute patterns onto semiconductors. It’s a by- product of steel production, though, much of which has been either overrun or dam- aged by Russia. Ukraine’s steel output has fallen by two-thirds since the invasion. It’s unlikely that critical-minerals min- ing will drive Ukraine’s eventual rebuild- ing and recovery, much less provide a “security shield,” as U.S. Treasury Secre- tary Scott Bessent asserted in Kyiv on Feb. 12. But it might help around the edges. BARRONS Read it weekly. Retire wisely. Whether you're happily retired or planning for it, Barron's Retirement newsletter offers insights and advice for life after work. So you can take the right steps now and relax tomorrow. Sign up Barrons.com/RetirementNewsletter © 2025 Dow Jones & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. 300 32 BARRON’S February 24, 2025
