METADATA:
Source: Barrons
Date: 2025-02-24
Categories: general
Title: RETIREMENT MAILBAG Medicare Is in DOGE’s Crosshairs. Get Ready. BY ELIZABETH O'BRIEN edicare isn’...
ID: 20

CONTENT:
RETIREMENT MAILBAG Medicare Is in DOGE’s Crosshairs. Get Ready. BY ELIZABETH O'BRIEN edicare isn’t likely to be spared changes as Elon Musk’s DOGE team looks for budget savings across the federal government. The team has targeted improper pay- ments in the Medicare program, which provides health insurance to more than 66 million people, including those 65 and over and others with certain disabilities. It remains to be seen how that effort will affect beneficiaries directly, if at all. A larger goal outlined in Project 2025—the conservative playbook guiding the efforts of the so-called Department of Government Efficiency—would accelerate the privatization of Medicare by making Medicare Advantage the default enroll- ment option. This privately run alterna- tive to traditional Medicare imposes more restrictions on care than the government- run, fee-for-service model. Under current law, most changes to Medicare would have to go through Con- gress. Funding for Medicare benefits is considered mandatory spending and as such doesn’t go through the annual con- gressional budget process. What’s more, it would take an act of Congress to change the basic Medicare benefit structure. That said, concern over the future of this bedrock program is understandable. For now, the best you can do is to control what you can. The big choice at the Medicare eligibil- ity age of 65 is whether to enroll in tradi- tional Medicare run by the federal govern- ment or in Medicare Advantage, which is run by private companies like Humana that contract with the government to pro- vide Part A hospital coverage, Part B out- patient coverage, and often Part D drug coverage at no extra premium. Advantage comes with perks not in- cluded in traditional Medicare, like free gym memberships, transportation bene- fits, or limited dental and vision coverage. Yet supplemental benefits have been cur- tailed this year as Medicare Advantage insurers struggle with rising costs. Medicare Advantage plans tend to limit doctor choice through restrictive provider networks and to impose hurdles to care in the form of referrals and prior authorization requirements. For-profit insurance companies make more money if they spend less on patient care. “You may be healthy today, but you need to look at the future—does it make sense for me to be in a Medicare Advantage policy as I get older?” said Ron Mastrogiovanni, CEO of HealthView Services, a provider of retirement healthcare tools and data, at a recent Barron’s Live event. If you don’t like Medicare Advantage, it can be hard to return to traditional Medicare and buy a Medigap supplement plan to cover out-of-pocket costs that traditional Medicare doesn’t. Those poli- cies are medically underwritten, and you can be denied coverage or charged more due to pre-existing conditions. The stakes for patients would grow if Medicare Advantage becomes the default enrollment option and new beneficiaries have to actively choose traditional Medi- care. Those who don’t opt in by a certain time might find that it’s too late to switch. On average, Medicare Advantage doesn’t confer cost savings to enrollees, according to Health View Services. A healthy 65-year-old male who lives to age 83 will spend an estimated $172,482 in healthcare costs on traditional Medicare throughout retirement, versus $189,465 on Medicare Advantage. What’s more, Medicare Advantage doesn’t save the government money, although that was the original intent. The Medicare Payment Advisory Com- mission, an independent congressional agency that advises Congress on Medicare, projected last year that in 2024, Advan- tage plans would receive an estimated $88 billion more than what would have been spent under fee-for-service Medicare. The Federal Reserve's ‘Analysis Paralysis’ To the Editor: Nicholas Jasinski is prescient (“Will Data Dependence Leave the Fed Behind the Curve?” The Economy, Feb. 14). After four years of inflation, the Federal Reserve needs to abandon wishy-washy, half- baked political indecision about interest rates. It needs to seriously address making a decision that helps Main Street, not Wall Street, and not politicians in Washington, D.C. With thousands of variables that change by the hour, Fed officials will never have enough data. What many people globally call “data dependent” translates to analysis paralysis. B.J. Khalifah Grosse Pointe Park, Mich. Climate Changes To the Editor: In “Move Over, Florida. Retirees Are Mak- ing New Plans as Climate Change Raises Costs” (Retirement, Feb. 13), Elizabeth O’Brien mentions a slowing of migration to the Sunbelt because of hurricanes, wild- fires, and rising insurance costs. Painful as they are, higher home in- surance rates convey valuable messages to both buyers and sellers. Yet today, these messages are being confused by the federal government’s aggressive invest- ments in climate-warming oil and gas. Not only do these investments raise the risks associated with global warming, but they also confuse people who are contem- plating critical decisions about where to invest and live. In particular, potential buyers may interpret “Drill, baby, drill” as an indica- tion that it is insurance markets, not the federal government, whose climate poli- cies are distorted. Nothing could be fur- ther from the truth, or a greater disser- vice to seniors whose housing decisions will influence their safety and well-being in their remaining years. The insurance industry gathers data and uses facts to determine rates. Politicians are able to ignore facts when convenient. Don Campbell Glenside, Pa. Office Politics To the Editor: Regarding “Jamie Dimon Sounds Off on Remote Work, Bureaucracy, ‘Pablum and Bulls_’ ” (Feb. 12): Spoken like a true baby boomer who graduated college 45-plus years ago and probably showed up for his first day of work in a new three-piece suit from Brooks Brothers. Unfortunately, about 75% of his possi- bly like-minded baby boomer generation has retired, and the vast majority of his workforce is now made up of Gen X, Gen Y, and even some Gen Z employees who have a different opinion on today’s work/ life balance. His dilemma reminds me of a post-World War I song titled, “How Ya Gonna Keep ’em Down on the Farm (Af- ter They’ve Seen Paree)?” Today, the lyr- ics would probably be: “How ya gonna get ’em back in the office after they’ve experienced work-from-home?” The JPMorgan Chase CEO may need to come down a bit from his bully pulpit and compromise his beliefs on this subject, or he may find that some of his best talent walks and that securing top-quality replacement talent might not be so easy. Thomas J. Kloepfer Buffalo Grove, Ill. Send letters to Mail@Barrons.com. To be considered for publication, correspondence must bear the writer’s name, address, and phone number. Letters are subject to editing. The Barron's Daily is our morning briefing for what you need to know for the day. Sign up at barrons.com/newsletters. 2 MWLC WH 2HG P BARRON’S 483 F2D6790AI February 24, 2025 CKegent SEVEN SEAS CRUISES® UPGRADE 2-CATEGORY SUITE UPGRADE’ plus REDUCED DEPOSITS 207% SAVINGS ON SELECT SAILINGS Set your sights on the horizon and indulge in all the additional amenities that come with your FREE 2-Category Suite Upgrade. Add even more value when you select a featured sailing with 20% Savings. Reserve your upgraded suite with a 50% Reduced Deposit by February 28, 2025. CALL 1.844.473.4368
