METADATA:
Source: Barrons
Date: 2025-02-24
Categories: general
Title: BY TAE KIM Intel (INTC / Nasdaq) $50 45 40 35 30 25 15 March 2024 Source: FactSet sure the negoti...
ID: 11

CONTENT:
BY TAE KIM Intel (INTC / Nasdaq) $50 45 40 35 30 25 15 March 2024 Source: FactSet sure the negotiating power of U.S.- based semiconductor capital equip- ment vendors like Applied Materials and KLA Corp. Not an ideal outcome. A better and realistic approach would be for the government to compel TSMC to build more chip factories in the U.S.—including the essential ad- vanced chip packaging plants needed for the latest AI processors. Speculation about a major Intel deal is nothing new. Last fall, there were reports of Qualcomm approach- ing Intel about a takeover. Nothing has happened since. The most important thing from all of the potential Intel mergers-and- acquisitions reports is they all include phrases like “very early stages,” “informally discussed,” and “no for- malized structure.” It’s clear that the discussions aren’t very advanced. In- tel and TSMC declined to comment on the reports. The White House and Broadcom didn’t respond to requests for comment. The fact is the prospects for a transformative Intel deal still face two primary difficulties that will be hard to overcome. First, any major transaction for a purchase of Intel’s product group would need approval from global regulators. China blocked a much smaller $5 billion acquisition of Is- rael’s Tower Semiconductor by Intel in 2023. Tower would have signifi- cantly boosted the chip maker’s capa- bilities and know-how in servicing Intel foundry customers. It suggests that the Asian country isn’t keen on any acquisition that would help the U.S. chip-making industry. It is unclear how China would then be amenable to Broadcom purchasing $28 26 24 22 20 Feb. 12 Feb. 19 Intel stock has recently seen a big run-up. '25 Intel’s product business. Second, there isn’t an easy way to separate Intel’s chip manufacturing operations. In 2024, Intel foundry generated $17.5 billion in revenue, down 7% from the prior year, while losing $13.4 billion. Financially, it makes little sense for an external buyer to purchase a financial black hole with massive losses that isn’t viable on a stand-alone basis. It also doesn’t help sentiment about Intel foundry’s road map when Michelle Johnston Holthaus, interim co-CEO of Intel and CEO of Intel Products, repeatedly reiterated that in the future she would potentially use TSMC for data center central processing units, or CPUs, Intel’s most important prod- uct, if it “made sense.” Such remarks don’t instill confidence in Intel foundry’s capabilities. All of this comes as Intel still doesn’t have a permanent CEO fol- lowing Pat Gelsinger’s retirement last December. The fact that talks to split up Intel are taking place detracts from the ability to hire the best talent, which seems ill-advised. The chip maker shouldn’t discuss selling itself for parts while trying to find a CEO, especially when a deal may not even be possible. Intel would be better served finding a competent leader with technical expertise to figure out a turnaround strategy focused on making a competitive best-in-class AI chip offering and stabilize the business. Recruiting a quality CEO should be job No. 1 for Intel’s board above all else. “You build value by having a great goal and a team that loves working to the goal. Intel built the fastest CPUs on the best process. This is not un- locking shareholder value; it’s a fire sale,” former Intel executive and chip designer Jim Keller said on social media in response to the latest Intel media reports. For investors, it may be prudent to take some gains. Waiting for some- thing that may not happen could prove disappointing. 8 A version of this column first ran in the weekly Barron’s Tech email newsletter. Sign up at barrons.com/newsletters. 26 February 24, 2025 February 24, 2025 QGA BARRON’S 27 An Interview With Andrea Auerbach, Head of Private Investments, Cambridge Associates Playing Private Markets Isn't For the Timid
