METADATA:
Source: Barrons
Date: 2025-02-24
Categories: general
Title: BY MALLIKA MITRA inancial advisor Patti Black works with a 36-year-old small-business owner who h...
ID: 6

CONTENT:
BY MALLIKA MITRA inancial advisor Patti Black works with a 36-year-old small-business owner who has two surprising employ- ees: his three-year-old and six-month-old children. The pair are featured in photos used to market the business, Young Adults Are Giving More Money to Heirs Than Baby Boomers Did Boomers are worried about running out of money. Wealthy millennials and Gen Xers want to share wealth with the next generation now. which creates handmade products. Black says her client is employing his minor children so they can have earned income, and he can make Roth individual retirement account, or IRA, contributions on their behalf. “Tt was drilled into his head by his parents the importance of saving and investing early, and he wants to go ahead and do that for his children,” says Black, who works in Birming- ham, Ala., for Savant Wealth Management. Giving money to the next genera- tion while still alive is a more com- mon move for young people now than it was for older generations. Wealthy people ages 27 to 58 are more than twice as likely to say they want to share their wealth with the next generation during their lives compared with people ages 59 to 76, according to a recent survey from Charles Schwab of people with at least $1 million. Those wealthy older people are more likely to say they want to enjoy their money them- selves during their lifetime. Financial advisors say this isn’t just a question of one generation be- ing more generous than another. In- stead, a series of financial crises in- stilled a fear of losing it all in older generations, while the soaring costs of living have younger generations more fearful for their own children’s future. Ider generations heard first- hand accounts of the Great Depression, which led them to believe that anything could happen— including losing all of the money they have carefully saved, says Mitchell Kraus, financial advisor and co-founder of Capital Intelli- gence Associates. Their approach to inheritance is that they should hold on to what they have while they are alive, just in case their fears come to fruition. Take one of Kraus’ clients, a woman in her 90s with more than $10 million. She and her late hus- band wanted to help their children buy a home, and they were certainly able to do so. But instead of giving their children money for a mortgage, they gave them a loan. “They’re from the World War II generation,” Kraus explains. “They were really worried that someday they’d run out of money.” There’s also a generational differ- ence in how taboo it is to talk about money, which plays a role in the trend: A recent survey from Fidelity Investments shows that while more than half of Americans say their par- ents never discussed money with them, the tides are turning. Four out of five people now say it is important to talk to young people about the once-taboo subject. Kraus has another client who ex- emplifies this old-school taboo. The matriarch of the client family has a net worth of roughly $12 million, and while she has set aside money for her two adult daughters, she is keeping that move a secret. She doesn’t want to make promises she can’t keep, and she is used to keeping financial infor- mation private, Kraus explains. But when the family’s first grand- daughter recently started college and the matriarch said she would contrib- ute $40,000, her daughter (the mother of the college student) was surprised. “The daughter and her husband have been struggling for years to set aside money for college, and it turns out they didn’t have to do that,” Kraus says. “As the financial advisor, I have encouraged her to put less in the college funds than maybe I would recommend to most clients...but I didn’t have permission to share that the first $40,000 of college is taken care of.” It also is hard to switch from being net savers to net spenders, says Mi- chael Lofley, a financial advisor at HBKS Wealth based in Stuart, Fla. “Many of our clients came to be mil- lionaires via years of diligent saving and investing,” he says. “When those types of people hit retirement, it is hard to unlearn old habits.” Gen Xers and especially millenni- als who have grown up amid sky- rocketing costs take a different ap- proach, since they see how hard it is to get a start in society, Kraus says. Affording a house, for instance, is more difficult than ever. The median sales price of a home was $427,000 in December versus just $169,000 in 2000, according to the Census Bu- reau. Meanwhile, the average annual tuition and fees at a public college were $9,750 for the 2022-23 school year compared with just $3,501 in 2000, data from the Education Data Initiative show. Younger generations have weath- ered their fair share of recessions and even a pandemic, which has resulted in them being less worried about the economy falling apart than their older counterparts. “They’re much more concerned about helping their children fight for that American dream than worrying about running out of money,” Kraus says. Even if that fight starts, like Black’s client, when those children are still in diapers. 8 18 BARRON’S February 24, 2025 Top 100 Sustainable Companies: Coping With Anti-ESG Sentiment Barron’s annual ranking of the 100 Most Sustainable Companies is topped by Clorox and Prudential Financial.
