METADATA:
Source: Economist
Date: 2025-02-25
Categories: general
Title: PAUL BLEDSOE Professorial lecturer Centre for Environmental Policy American University Washington...
ID: 171

CONTENT:
PAUL BLEDSOE Professorial lecturer Centre for Environmental Policy American University Washington, DC “The future is people” The transformation of parlia- mentary speeches into mean- ingless sound bites (“Rhetoric and reality”, February 8th) was set firmly on course by Tony Blair's egregious spin doctor, Alastair Campbell. Simon Hefter recognised this sad fact by including in his “The Great British Speeches” Mr Blair's address to the Labour Party Conference in 1999. It appears in the book as a cautionary example of what was anything but a great British speech. As Mr Heffer says, it was a product of the import of spin-doctors into Britain, “It is neither fine rhetoric nor does it feel well in any literary sense: it is a succes- sion of slogans and brusque statements, issued one after the other, in the hope that they will penetrate the subcon- scious of the listener.” PROFESSOR PETER SURTEES Bredasdorp, South Africa You mentioned the empty press gallery as a symbol of Parliament’s declining rele- vance. [his isn’t a new phe- nomenon. | remember sitting there in the early 1990s, when the Commons’ speaker sent a doorman to poke me inthe ribs. [had fallen conspicuously asleep during a debate. As I was the only journalist in the entire press gallery, it hadn’t gone unnoticed. It isn’t Parlia- ment that is becoming sudden- ly irrelevant to British life, it is our current politics. Now that’s something to wake up to. CHRISTOPHER PHILIPSBORN Brighton A gem ofa deal? The Free exchange column on the popularity of lab-grown diamonds (February 8th) sparked a spirited debate between my partnerand1.As competition drives down the price of lab-grown diamonds these stones will lose their powerto showcommitment to a loved one through significant expense. Consequently, they'll no longer serve as effective substitutes for natural dia- monds, increasing the demand for the natural gems. So a wider price disparity with lab-grown alternatives actually boosts the narrative that natural dia- monds are superior.
