METADATA:
Source: Economist
Date: 2025-02-25
Categories: general
Title: JEJU ISLAND Han Kang, South Korea’s first Nobel laureate in literature, chronicles shameful episo...
ID: 182

CONTENT:
JEJU ISLAND Han Kang, South Korea’s first Nobel laureate in literature, chronicles shameful episodes in the country’s history We Do Not Part. By Han Kang. Iranslated by e. yaewon and Paige Morris. Hogarth; 272 pages; $28. Hamish Hamilton; £18.99 OST VISITORS to Jeju island arrive by Mo rine The sea foams as you descend onto the runway, close to the black basalt coast. More than 13m people come to this island, south of South Korea’s mainland, every year; many will not be aware of what lies beneath the tarmac. Between 2007 and 2009 investigators dug up part of the air- port and uncovered the bodies of hundreds of people massacred there by government forces some 60 years earlier. “We Do Not Part’, Han Kang’s latest novel, probes the killings that took place on Jeju in 1947-54. [he author has made the violence humans inflict on each other a theme of her books, including “The Vege- tarian’, which won the International Book- er prize in 2016, and “Human Acts”, about the killing of student protesters in 1980 in her hometown of Gwangju. In October Ms Han became the first South Korean author to win the Nobel prize in literature: the committee praised her “intense poetic prose that confronts historical traumas and exposes the fragility of human life”. The story in “We Do Not Part” revolves around the friendship between two wom- en. One, Inseon, is a lapsed documentary film-maker. She moves to Jeju to look after her ageing mother, who survived the slaughter. The other, Kyungha, a writer in Seoul, suffers from migtaines and haunt- ing dreams after writing a book about “the massacre in G—”. (Ms Han has also long > ALSO INTHIS SECTION 73 Football hooligans are back 74 Pop stars on screen 75 Back Story: “The White Lotus” 76 The Louvre’s first fashion show suffered from debilitating migraines.) Inseon summons Kyungha to a hospital where doctors are trying to reattach the tips of her fingers, which she sliced off while trying to bring one of Kyungha’s dreams to life on film. She asks Kyungha to travel to her village in the mountains of Jeju to feed her pet bird before it starves. Ky- ungha lands on the island in a blizzard. Her harrowing journey to the house be- comes a surreal voyage through the is- land's tragic past. Following the end of the second world war and Japanese imperial rule, the Korean peninsula was cut in half. On April 3rd 1948 a group of leftist rebels on Jeju staged an uprising to protest against the division. That autumn Rhee Syng-man, the first leader of South Korea, unleashed a brutal crackdown; American advisers lent tacit approval, if not outright support, to what their own reports later described as “an in- discriminate reign of terror’. Hundreds of villages were burned down; as many as 30,000 residents were killed, some 10% of the island’s population at the time. Jeju was a portent for how the division of the Korean peninsula would fuel divi- sion within South Korea itself, and for the fraught nature of South Korea’s relation- ship with America. But South Korea’s rul- ers suppressed any mention of the killings for decades. Sustained public discussion became possible only when the country >> The Economist February 22nd 2025 democratised in the late 1980s; it took until the 21st century for a complete official in- quiry to be conducted. The memory of state-sanctioned violence is one reason why South Koreans responded fiercely when Yoon Suk Yeol, the president, at- tempted to impose martial law last De- cember; he was impeached and is current- ly on trial at the constitutional court. What happened on Jeju remains largely unknown beyond east Asia: the events are a forgotten horror from the periphery of the cold war. Literature has played an im- portant role in raising awareness. One of the first accounts came in “Death of a Crow’, a novel published in Japanese in 1957 by Kim Sok-pom, a Korean writer whose parents were from Jeju. “Sun-i Sam- ch’on” (“Aunt Suni”) was the first work published in South Korea to address the tragedy. After its release in 1978 the novel was banned and its author, Hyun Ki- young, arrested and tortured. Ms Han’s book and her Nobel prize are “catalysts” for renewed interest in the trag- edy, says Chon Yeong-mi of the Jeju Hist- ory and Culture Research Society. The peace memorial museum on Jeju now fea- tures a wall dedicated to Ms Han. The power of “We Do Not Part” comes from Ms Han’s masterful fusion of the lit- erary and the documentary. She spent sev- en years working on the novel, living part- time on Jeju for two of them. Scenes from the book gesture towards real people and locations. Inseon’s mother finds her youn- ger sister, bloodied and barely alive, her jaw shattered by bullets—much as one prominent real-life survivor had her jaw blown apart. Ms Han incorporates quotations from archival materials and descriptions of pho- tographs into her novel. Inseon reflects on seeing a picture of the airport excavation, in which a set of bones is arrayed sideways: “Their knees were drawn up to their chest, just as we curl up when we're unwell, or have trouble sleeping, or can’t quieten our minds.” Inseon takes to revisiting the im- age and assuming the same posture. The ritual warms her, “much like the lingering soft feel of cotton, feathers or baby skin”. Ms Han’s writing conjures a similar sense of seemingly incongruous feelings, at once unsettling and soothing. The daughter of a novelist, Ms Han has been honing her lithe, lyrical prose since childhood. She draws inspiration from Ko- rean modernists such as Yi Sang, a poet, and from other accounts of atrocities, such as Primo Levis work on the Holocaust. Her writing moves effortlessly between naturalistic descriptions of the massacre and spectral scenes where the boundaries between living and dead melt away. Beauty endures alongside tragedy. symbols recur throughout her work, building networks of associations. The colour white, which in Korean culture is as- sociated both with birth and with mourn- ing, plays an important role. (Another of her books, an elegy to a dead older sister, is called “The White Book”; it was also short- listed for the International Booker prize.) Snow becomes a metaphor for trauma, the way it accumulates, disperses and changes form. Inseon’s mother recalls her sister wiping the snow from the faces of bodies while searching for their parents. “Who’s to say the snow dusting my hands now isn’t the same snow that had gathered on their faces?” Kyungha wonders in turn. Back at the airport, Ms Chon of the re- search society laments that remains may still be trapped beneath the runway. Then she gestures toward the horizon, to Halla- san, the island’s largest peak. “They’re so beautiful, the snow-capped mountains,” she sighs. It is a Hanian vision: admiring beauty through tears. ™ Sport and antisocial behaviour Fever pitch British football hooligans are on the attack once again HE CONTEST between Arsenal and TL wes Ham on February 22nd will be fierce. Probably not on the pitch: Arsenal is the strong favourite to win the fixture. The Gunners are second in the Premier League, while the Hammers are languishing in 16th. Instead, the battle will be in the stadi- um grounds. When the teams met in No- vember, fans could be seen brawling in the stands. Both clubs rank in the top five in Culture 73 terms of supporter arrests and banning or- ders, with 85 and 103 respectively last sea- son. [he “English disease”, as football hoo- liganism is known, is flaring up again. As prime minister, Margaret Thatcher was troubled by football thuggery. She considered it a threat to British society as grave as the IRA and miners’ strikes. In 1985, 39 people died at the European Cup Final as Juventus fans, fleeing an assault from Liverpool supporters, were crushed when a wall collapsed. English clubs were subsequently prohibited from European club competitions for five years. Fans focused their violent energies on local games instead. During the 1987-88 season, there were an estimated 6,150 fan arrests across the top four divisions. In a crackdown dubbed “Operation Fulltime”, the police arrested club ringleaders. The British government passed various acts to stamp out hooliganism in the 1980s and 1990s: measures included a stronger police presence, more surveillance, better- designed stadiums with seating and bans for the worst offenders. Fans were prohib- ited from drinking alcohol anywhere with a view of the pitch. Clubs also increased ticket prices. According to History & Poli- cy, an academic group, ticket prices for the Premier League went up by more than 300% between 1989 and 1999. These measures helped. By the 2000-01 season, the number of football-related ar- rests had fallen to 4,200 across the top four divisions as well as domestic tournaments and international fixtures. Arrests contin- ued to trend downwards for the next 20 years. In 2018-19, the last full season before the pandemic, there were 1,400 arrests. But since then, hooliganism has surged—though it is some way off its high point. In 2021-22 there were 2,200 arrests. (Many were apprehended as a result of the A strong defensive line 4d 74 ~#Culture European Championship final at Wem- bley, when more than 2,000 people forced their way into the stadium without tickets.) In subsequent seasons, arrests increased to almost 2,300, then 2,600. Police reports mention violent disorder, hate crime and the throwing of missiles. This is not a uniquely English problem, despite the moniker. Hundreds of French fans clashed in May. At the end of 2024 fights between rival clubs in Germany left 79 injured, including ten police officers. But detailed data in Britain provide the clearest picture of a problem that is wors- ening once more. Football hooliganism is a heady brew of tribalism and testosterone; there is a “his- torical alignment with working-class mas- culinity’, according to Paul Davis, a sports sociologist at the University of Sunder- land. In “Among the Thugs’, a book pub- lished in 1990, Bill Buford, a journalist, sought to understand why “young males riot every Saturday”. A straight answer eluded him—he found that it was often gainfully employed fans that enjoyed the fighting—but he likened it to other rebel- lious outlets such as drink and drugs. “Vio- lence is their antisocial kick, their mind- altering experience.” In fact, drugs have always been part of the problem, but now they are widespread. After America, Britain has the highest rate of cocaine use. In 2021 a study of 1,500 fans in Britain found that 30% had witnessed cocaine use in stadiums. New regulations were introduced in November 2022, stat- ing that any fans caught with Class A drugs (including cocaine, ecstasy and heroin) could be banned for up to ten years and re- ceive a criminal conviction. Yet arrests continued to rise. Compared with the same November-May period in the 2022-23 season, arrests for drug-related offences in 2023-24 increased by nearly 60%. In response, police officers are bringing sniffer dogs into grounds and can adminis- ter drug tests on arrest. Clubs are also in- creasing awareness of the health risks of combining cocaine and alcohol (such as a higher chance of heart attacks). Stadiums could be even stricter, partic- ularly on alcohol consumption: sports ven- ues in France, for instance, have to get a le- gal exemption to sell it. Research is also ongoing as to the impact of kick-off times on individuals’ propensity to kick off. In 2021 researchers studying the relationship between domestic violence, alcohol and football fixtures argued that weekday matches and later kick-offs would help mitigate abusive behaviour, as “Early games lead perpetrators to start drinking alcohol earlier and continue to do so through the afternoon and evening.” Yet for miscreants, the goal is to feel the thrill of violence. Mr Buford observed that, for men who had never been to war, foot- ball bust-ups offered something akin to combat. “They talk about it with the pride of the privileged, of those who have had, seen, felt, been through something that other people have not,’ he wrote. His sub- jects reflected on the pleasure of nastiness, “about the crack, the buzz and the fix. They talk about having to have it, of being unable to forget it when they do, of not wanting to forget it—ever.” The majority of football fans, however, would prefer it if hooliganism were a distant memory. ™@ Casting in Hollywood Aim for the stars Why are pop singers popping up in films? OU COULD tune out for a few seconds b oe miss it. [here is a brief moment in “Popular”, one of the song-and-dance numbers in “Wicked”, when Ariana Gran- de (pictured) delivers a riff that sounds more like something from one of her hit pop songs than the operatic trills typical of Glinda the Good Witch. The movie musi- cal has grossed over $725m and is up for ten Academy Awards on March 2nd, in- cluding Best Supporting Actress for Ms Grande. On social media her fans, who call themselves “Arianators”, have fixated on that moment. It was, one user said, “just the touch of Ari we needed”. Ms Grande is not the only pop princess to grace the silver screen of late. Selena Gomez plays the tragic, chaotic wife of a Mexican cartel boss in “Emilia Pérez”. (Re- viled by the public but beloved by critics, -_ | Looking for her next role? The Economist February 22nd 2025 the trans-narco-musical is nominated for 13 Oscars.) SZA, an R’n’B singer, stars in “One of Them Days”, a comedy that fol- lows two friends trying to scrabble money together to pay their rent. In 2024 Dua Lipa had a headline slot at Glastonbury, the world’s most famous music festival. She also starred in “Argylle’, the world’s most forgettable spy film. For decades talented folk have moved between the recording studio and the stu- dio lot. In Hollywood's Golden Age, many performers were a “triple threat”—ie, they could act, dance and sing. Bing Crosby, Judy Garland and Frank Sinatra all released umpteen albums while acting in scores of films. Others have followed their example. Barbra Streisand has several Grammys and Oscars. Will Smith was in a hip-hop duo before he was in blockbusters. As Hollywood seeks to lure audiences to cinemas, producers will be thinking more strategically about casting. Increas- ingly your favourite singer may also be your favourite movie star. Studios should be warned, though: results will vary. Some musicians have been revelatory on screen. David Bowie was suitably eth- ereal as an alien in “The Man Who Fell to Earth” (1976). “Moonstruck”, a sometimes silly melodrama, was redeemed by Cher'’s naturalistic turn as Loretta Castorini; she won the Oscar for Best Actress in 1988. La- dy Gaga shone in “A Star Is Born” (2018), a film about fame and addiction. But many musicians have flopped. Ma- donna floundered in “Swept Away” (2002), a dreadful shipwreck romance. More re- cently, Harry Styles of One Direction fame has had a go at being an actor, starring in films including “Don’t Worry Darling” (2022). He might have worried about tak- ing the part: that he is revealed to be a vil- lain is surprising only because it is easy to >> The Economist February 22nd 2025 forget that he is in the film at all. Box-office receipts are studio execu- tives’ primary concern. Cinemas have struggled since the pandemic. Many peo- ple would rather watch videos on TikIok or Youlube at home, or wait for a film’s re- lease on streaming services, than rush out to see a new title. Cast a famous musician, however, and the equation changes. Singers are in their fans’ ears every day. Gayle Stever of the Empire State Universi- ty of New York says that this intensifies the one-sided connection: “More frequent contact does foster a closer parasocial rela- tionship.” In 2024 a study by Deloitte found that, across every generation, indi- viduals are more likely to say that their sup- port of a particular musician—as opposed to a film franchise or video game—is an im- portant part of their identity. Gen Z, in particular, takes fandom seri- ously. As a way of proving their fealty to celebrities, many youngsters make videos about their work. Clips tagged #fancon-
