METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: THE LIFE OF A SONG s winter continued to bite in early 1969, George Harrison was ina despondent m...
ID: 155

CONTENT:
THE LIFE OF A SONG s winter continued to bite in early 1969, George Harrison was ina despondent mood. He and his wife Pattie had recently been found guilty of possessing cannabis, while dour discussions at Apple Corps found accountants advising The Beatles on how to reorganise their mismanaged business empire. One morning, Harrison decided to skip the Apple meetings, instead visiting Eric Clapton at his Surrey country house. There the sun came out after weeks of dank weather, inspiring Harrison to borrow one of Clapton's guitars and walk around the garden strumming and chanting: “Here comes the sun.” The Beatle knew he had the makings of a song and continued working on it, finishing it while on holiday in Sardinia in June. The Abbey Road album recording sessions had got under way in February before the band decided to take an eight-week break in May. With John Lennon absent after a car crash, the remaining Beatles got to work, with Harrison singing and playing guitar and Moog synthesiser — a first ona Beatles recording. Harrison and Paul McCartney sang the winsome vocal harmonies while producer George Martin added an 18- piece orchestral arrangement. Perhaps sensing the song’s simple charm, Martin mixed the orchestra's contribution low. “Here Comes the Sun” joined Harrison’s “Something” on Abbey Road; those two songs would be widely considered high points of the album — and establish Harrison as an equal to Lennon and McCartney as a songwriter — when the album was released in late September. While never released as a single, “Here Comes the Sun” was quickly picked up by musicians, with more Black singers embracing it than any previous Beatles song. Richie Havens recorded a live version that, when released as a single in 1971, reached number 16 in the US singles chart. Havens strums his guitar at an up- tempo pace, while another acoustic guitarist picks out the melody; Havens sings quietly and with affection. Nina Simone, who by now was regularly recording popular rock/pop songs, also cut Harrison's song in 1971, including it on an album called Here Comes the Sun. Simone sings in a gentle, reflective manner over a cha-cha rhythm; only an overly busy string section detracts. Peter Tosh released his version as a single in Jamaica in 1971 while still a member of The Wailers. Tosh sings slowly and rather ominously over a huge bass line. In 2022, British singer Joss Stone also recorded a reggae version on a Simone tribute album. Her recording matches neither Tosh nor Simone’s efforts. In 1972, Charles Wright, the Los Angeles funk merchant best known for “Express Yourself”, included it on his album Rhythm & Poetry. This soulful version finds Wright's gruff voice cracking as his band heats up the tempo, creating a warm hug of a song. In contrast, Steve Harley & Cockney Rebel’s shouty, jerky rock workout should be avoided (though it went top 10 in the UK in 1976's hot summer). Many versions followed — there are well over 300 of “Here Comes the Sun” — and it is the first 1960s recording to top 1bn streams. Its warm melody and gentle sense of optimism have made it a popular standard, beloved of buskers and choirs. A personal favourite is the one by Womack & Womack. They chose “Here Comes the Sun” to close their 1985 album Radio M.U.S.C. Man, employing a gentle reggae rhythm, gorgeous harmonies and chants of “good day sunshine”, creating a soulful, loving interpretation akin to a hymn — which is just how Harrison said he saw his song. Garth Cartwright your fullest life Bowery s work asks us to acceptthe more focused, more extreme.1In 1992, February27to August 31, tate.org.uk George Harrison in 1969 — cerry maces More at ft.
