METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: FROM EXCEPTION TO EXCEPTIONAL. We are the proud purveyors of Pecora Nera®, not just for the exqui...
ID: 111

CONTENT:
FROM EXCEPTION TO EXCEPTIONAL. We are the proud purveyors of Pecora Nera®, not just for the exquisiteness of the fibre, but for what the fibre represents. Woven in this wool is a story of originality, of embracing the beauty in the margins, and the quiet power of those who dare to be different. Simply put, individuality is simply the most luxurious thing one can ever wear. FT Weekend FT BIG READ. WAR IN UKRAINE 22 February/235 February 2025 The US president has shocked allies — and even some Republicans — by opening direct talks with Moscow and criticising the leader of Ukraine. Will this dramatic shift in US foreign policy hold? By James Politi, Felicia Schwartz and Steff Chavez lying back to Washington from Florida on Wednesday night on Air Force One, Donald Trump was asked if he trusted Russia to negotiate in good faith when it came to settling the war in Ukraine. “I do. I think the Russians want to see the war end,” the US president said during a 14-minute long briefing with reporters, insisting that Moscow had the upper hand. “They’ve taken a lot of territory,” Trump said of Russia. “So they have the cards.” During the 2024 campaign, Trump consistently claimed that he would seek to end the war in Ukraine as soon as he took office in the White House again in January. But even so, the speed with which he has rushed over the past 10 days to set up direct negotiations with Russia has been dizzying — stunning America’s western allies and opening the prospect that Nato unity will be torn apart. Ukraine has so far been left out of the negotiations. The steps taken by Trump have included a phone call with Russian Pres- ident Vladimir Putin, a high-level meet- ing between his diplomatic national security officials and their Russian counterparts in Saudi Arabia, and the dispatching of Treasury secretary Scott Bessent and Keith Kellogg, a retired gen- eral, to Kyiv to put pressure on Ukraine to start making concessions. To that, Trump has added fierce public criticism of Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zel- enskyy, calling him a “dictator” who is clinging to power and blaming him for Russia's aggression. This approach marks a stunning U-turn on US policy towards Ukraine since Russia's full-blown invasion began three years ago. Under Trump’s prede- cessor, Joe Biden, Washington pursued a strategy that combined staunch support for Ukraine combined with diplomatic isolation and financial punishment of Putin’s government. In effect, the US is now treating Mos- cow as a great power in a way that it has not done for at least two decades — per- haps since before Putin’s 2008 invasion of Georgia started to raise alarm bells about his intentions in the west. The shift not only has ramifications for US ties with Russia and Ukraine, but for America’s relationship with Nato and the EU. The pillars of transatlantic relations for decades are now being severely tested. In the weeks after Trump was re- elected, America’s allies in Europe, Republicans in Congress and the Wash- ington foreign policy establishment were reassured by pledges that he would pursue an approach of “peace through strength”. Instead, as Trump has swiftly moved much closer to Moscow, they are scram- bling to understand what his new approach means for the war in Ukraine — and for America’s position in an increasingly multipolar world. Andrea Kendall-Taylor, director of the transatlantic security programme at CNAS, says it has become apparent that Trump's priority is “bringing an end to the war at any cost” without regard to the ramifications. “The thing that makes me so worried is that Putin is essentially going to extract concessions from the United States in a way that only strengthens his position for more aggression in the future,” says Kendall- Taylor. “It’s only been an invitation for Putin to escalate further.” Jason Crow, a Democratic member of the House of Representatives from Colorado, tells the FT that, “like most wars’, the Ukraine conflict would likely end via negotiations, but that Trump was not going about it the right way. “To ‘How are you going to end the war unless youre talking to Russia? You ve got to talk to everybody involved in the fighting if you want to bring the conflict to a close’ start negotiations by meeting with the adversary . . .as opposed to our partner, Ukraine, sent exactly the wrong mes- sage and got this off on the wrong foot,” he says. US policy on Russia and Ukraine seemed to be “erratic” and inconsistent, shifting “by the day and by the tweet”, Crow adds. he whirlwind rapproche- ment between the US and Russia began when Trump's special envoy, Steve Witkoff, began secret nego- tiations on a prisoner swap for Ameri- can teacher Marc Fogel, who had been detained in 2021 for trying to enter Rus- sia with a small amount of cannabis. Witkoff went to Moscow to bring Fogle home earlier this month, and met Putin for more than three hours. “I would think that it was a show of good faith on the part of President Putin . . . and it’s led to a lot of positivity,” Witkoff says. Trump’s Secretary of State Marco Rubio was already scheduled to be in Riyadh this week for talks on the Gaza war, so the Saudi capital was a logical place to begin negotiations with Russia about Ukraine. On Tuesday, the Saudis hosted senior American and Russian officials in the ornate Diriyah Palace, where the teams spoke for four and a half hours, including a working lunch of steak, scallops, lamb, fish and caviar. Afterwards, US officials said they felt that Russian officials came with open minds, raising historical grievances but not lecturing for hours on end. “I came away today convinced that they are will- ing to begin to engage in a serious proc- ess to determine how, how quickly, and through what mechanism, can an end be brought to this war,” Rubio said after the talks. “Whether we can ultimately reach that outcome will obviously depend on every side in this conflict’s willingness to agree to certain things.” In a party that still features a number of national security hawks, some Republicans are growing nervous about this policy. “To the extent that the White House said that Ukraine started the war, I disagree,” says John Kennedy, the Republican senator from Louisiana. “I think Vladimir Putin started the war. I also believe through bitter experience that Vladimir Putin is a gangster.” But administration officials have emphatically defended the overture, arguing that they are trying to resolve a conflict that has been dragging on for three years. “How are you going to end the war unless you're talking to Russia?” JD Vance, the vice-president, asked on Thursday. “You've got to talk to every- body involved in the fighting if you actu- ally want to bring the conflict to aclose.” efore Witkoff’s Moscow trip, Trump and his team had seemed more concerned that Putin appeared less inter- ested than Zelenskyy in com- ing to the negotiating table. They even warned they might ramp up US sanc- tions on Russian energy. But by this week the dynamic had changed dramatically. US officials said Ukraine’s rejection of a deal on critical mineral rights, guaranteeing the US half of all revenues, soured Trump’s mood. “President Trump is obviously very frustrated right now with President Zel- enskyy, the fact that he hasn’t come to the table,” the president's national secu- rity adviser, Mike Waltz, told reporters on Thursday. Andrew Bishop, head of policy research at Signum Global Advisors, says he believes that Trump came to the view that he had to do “something dra- matic” , and decided it was better to take on Ukraine than Russia: “Considering both his relative distaste for Zelenskyy Donald Trump and Vladimir Putin. As the US president has moved closer to Moscow, allies are scrambling to understand what his new and the potentialeconomic costofgoing approach means after Russia with meaningfully tight- for the war in ened oil sanctions, he picked Ukraine.” Ukraine The criticism of Zelenskyy has been _ = montage/Genry images particularly jarring to some. “He thinks he and Putin are friends, and he doesn’t like Zelenskyy,” says John Bolton, Trump’s national security adviser dur- ing his first term. He adds, “Every time you turn around, Trump is giving Putin a bigger advantage.” Max Bergmann, director of the Europe, Russia, and Eurasia pro- ‘Pjtin js gramme at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, says the US is going to “essentially selling out a democracy e@xXtract fighting for its freedom against an authoritarian dictator that is one of our CONCESSIONS oldest and longest adversaries”. from the US “The problem I see is, whatdoesthe ; US get out of this?” he says. “What con- aa Wey cessions is Russia making? What do we that only ost Republicans — includ- his position ing those who have’ for more attacked Putin in the past , — are still giving Trump aggression the benefit of the doubt. jn the future Senator Rick Scott of Florida tells the FT that Trump “wants Russia to lose, he wants Ukraine to win, and he wants the war to end. So he’s going to hold Putin accountable.” Trumps rapid pivot to Russia On Wednesday, John Thune, the Senate majority leader, told reporters, “What I'm in support of is a peaceful outcome... in Ukraine, and I think right now the administration, the presi- dent and his team are working to achieve that.” He added, “You've got to give them some space.” Bolton says the damage done could still be reversed. “To take Trump as a reflection of a permanent change in American policy is a mistake,” he argues. “There's no majority in Congress for this. Although people are intimi- dated and won't say it publicly, I don’t think there’s a majority support for it in the country as well.” Whether a deal actually happens will largely depend on how much territory Ukraine is willing to concede, and the existence of security guarantees to deter further aggression from Moscow. Ukraine will be pushing for the strong- est guarantees from its allies in the west, but Moscow may balk those demands. Anja Manuel, a former state depart- ment official in the George W Bush administration, says just “giving up on Ukraine” would be a disastrous policy, but she still sees scope for a deal. “You could imagine a Ukraine that gives upa little bit of land in exchange for a demo- cratic, western-looking, prosperous regime that is totally viable,” she says. EU and even Nato membership could eventually be possible, she continues. For now, though, Trump has again left the world rattled by his rapid return to engagement with Putin. “It points to a direction of a much more realist, multipolar world,” says Bergmann. “But I think it’s one where the United States is much more lonely.” OEE EEE EERE EERE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EERE EE EEE EERE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE ERE EEE EE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EE EERE EE EEE EERE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EERE EEE EERE EERE EEE EERE EEE EERE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE REE EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE EERE EEE EERE EEE EEE EE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EERE EERE EEE EEE EEE Ee EEE EEE EERE ETE OEE Oe Ree SEPP eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee Pee eee eee eee eee eee eee Pee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee Cee ee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee Pee eee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee OTR REE EERE EEE REET EEE EE Ee EEE EEE EEE EET ET OE Ee Tee ET EE RT TT Te TR RT TTT RT Tee ee Obituary Jam drummer whose beat drove their punk success Rick Buckler British musician 1955-2025 Rick Buckler developed his classic upright drumming style after seeing jazz drummer Buddy Rich at the Royal Albert Hall in the early 1970s. He noticed that Rich sat crouched over his minimalist drum kit — and then couldn’t fully uncurl when he stood up. The image-conscious Buckler, who has died aged 69, decided he'd never take the same approach. Throughout his time in The Jam, he was always posi- tioned proudly centre stage, sand- wiched between Bruce Foxton and Paul Weller, smartly dressed, upright, gripping his sticks with tightly clenched fists and staring back at the audience like a headmaster between two unruly prefects. Although he looked like Rolling Stones drummer Charlie Watts, Buckler played more like Ringo Starr, always seeking to serve the song. A powerful but understated craftsman as a musi- cian, it seemed fitting that in later years, Buckler took up carpentry and became a cabinet maker, working quietly from his workshop outside his hometown. By then his time in The Jam was long over, but his contribution to one of the greatest English pop groups of all time was assured. He was born with twin brother Peter in Woking on December 6 1955 when “Rock Around The Clock” was at number one. The son of a postman turned telephone engineer, his parents Bill and Peggy already had two much older sons — John and Andrew — and it was Andrew, seven years older, who would introduce Rick to the exciting sounds of the sixties: the Beatles, Rolling Stones, the Who and the Kinks. Buckler met Weller at Sheerwater Secondary School. Weller, almost three years younger and a precocious talent, formed a band, initially with his friend Steve Brookes. When their regular drummer missed a gig, Buckler was invited to step in, playing his first gig with the band at Sheerwater Youth Club in 1974. After Foxton joined, The Jam became a power trio, managed by Weller’s father John. At first they earned a decent living playing covers to the sub- urban working men’s clubs of Woking before joining the growing punk move- ment, a sharp three-piece in thrall to the retro-modernism of the Mod revival. Typically, Buckler said that he only took up drums because it seemed like the least “academic” instrument — the one where you didn’t need to be able to read music. “You had to listen to the others in the band and just do it,” he wrote in his 2015 autobiography, That’s Entertainment: My Life In The Jam. Although Weller wrote most of the music, sang, played guitar and penned insightful lyrics about working-class life, The Jam were a model of harmonis- ing efficiency. A three-piece that played like a four-piece, with Weller playing lead and rhythm guitar simultaneously, the rhythm section of Buckler and Foxton had to combine energy with innovation, building a platform that allowed Weller to shine. Buckler’s scurrying beat drives debut single “In The City”, while his clever opening introduced their first top 20 hit, “All Around The World”. As the group expanded their sound from their punk- infused origins, Buckler blossomed on tracks like “Strange Town” and “Down In The Tube Station At Midnight”, while his performance on “Funeral Pyre”, on which he had a rare co-writing credit, was a tour de force. The Jam would record four numbers ones — “Going Underground”, “Start!”, “Town Called Malice” and “Beat Surren- der” — before Weller abruptly dissolved the band in 1982. It was a decision that During his time with the band, he was proudly positioned centre stage On his playing style, Buckler recalled, ‘You had to listen to the others in the band and just do it even months before his death, Buckler was struggling to comprehend. “Suddenly, Paul decided that was it, when myself and Bruce knew there was a lot more in us,” he said recently. “We hadn’t really reached any sort of end- game.” Picking himself up after the dissolu- tion of The Jam wasn’t easy. Buckler formed a new band, Time UK, before briefly reuniting with Foxton in Sharp. He later took up carpentry profession- ally, having made cabinets for his drum kits when still at school. Buckler returned to music in 2005, playing Jam covers in a band called The Gift — the title of The Jam’s final studio album. When Foxton joined The Gift, they renamed themselves From the Jam, sparking talk of a full reunion with Weller. That was never likely to happen, and Buckler left the group in 2009 to concentrate on cabinet making and write his autobiography as well as other books about his musical career, most recently The Jam 1982 about The Jam’s final year. Buckler had planned a Q&A tour, A Night of Memories and Music, which was postponed due to illness shortly before his death. Peter Watts 22 February/23 February 2025 * FT Weekend 7 MONOCLE Live better. Read more. Subscribe at monocle.com/subscribe NEW OPENING: Paris — visit us at 16 Rue Bachaumont, 75002 BOUTIQUES: London | Ziirich | Merano | Hong Kong | Tokyo | Toronto RESORT: St Moritz AIRPORTS: Frankfurt | Hong Kong 8 The FT View t ar tn es Ol | " = i. b>, i ] ein — . 8 ™ Sint Ves dine Is |= lf ik aver 4 ‘ ae a : ee SFE +} Heat Aumiithen scteemmied Ate sn =
