METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: CERES EERE EEE EERE EERE EERE EERE EE EERE EERE EEE EEE EEE E EERE EE EEE REE E EE EEE EERE EEE E...
ID: 157

CONTENT:
CERES EERE EEE EERE EERE EERE EERE EE EERE EERE EEE EEE EEE E EERE EE EEE REE E EE EEE EERE EEE EEE EE REET E EEE EERE EEE ERE EEE EERE EEE EERE EEE EERE E EERE EEE EE EERE EERE EEE CEE EEE EERE CORREA EERE EEE EEE ERROR EERE EERE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EERE EERE EEE EEE EER EEE EERE EEE EEE SE EEE EE EERE EEE OEE EERE EERE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE EERE EEE EEE EERE EERE HERRERA EEE EEE ERE EERE EERE CEE EE EERE EEE CEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EERE EE EERE EE EE EEE EE EER EEEE EERE ERE EERE EEE PEER REE ER EERE EEE ER EERE EEE EEE EEE EERE EE EERE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE REESE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EH EEE EEE EE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE HEHE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE ETE EEE EHH EE EEE EEE EEE EEE SHEE E EEE E HEHE ES EERE EEE EE EEE EH EERE EEE EEE EE EEE EE EE EEE EE EEE EEE SHEER EEE EE EEE HEE EEE EE EEE EEE EM EEEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EE EEE EE EE EEE EEE EEE BEE EEE EEE HEHEHE EM EEHEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EE EE EEE EEE EE EE EEE EEE EE EEEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEEE EEE EEE EH EEE EEE EEE EEE EHD SHEER EEE EEE EHH EE CHEE EEE EEE EEE EH EEE EEEHEE HEHEHE HEHEHE EHS eE SEER RETR EEE EEE ERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EET EE TERETE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE REET EET EERE EE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE TEER EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE TEETER EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE SEE REET EE EEE EEE EEE EE EERE EERE EET EEE EERE EEE EEE TEETER EEE EEE REET REET EE EEE EE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EET ETRE TERRE ETE REET OTE TERT THE community. One way that some train riders make money is by documenting their lives on social media. “One of the funny, ironic things about the YouTube personalities that were out there,” Bruce said, “[was that] I thought the response would be all negative, and then I heard from rail workers them- selves who were watching these videos and getting more sympathetic towards the train riders. They're watching, and instead of somebody seeming like some threat in the darkness, they start to see some humanity.” Right as the sun was setting, a timber train rolled by. We heard it coming first, a rumbling in the distance, and then the clarion call of the bells. Before I got to the west coast, I had difficulty imagining how someone would even think to hopa train. But the train bells that went past us now would have been heard for perhaps a mile around. In this part of the world, the trains quite literally call to you. Some people end up living this way out of lack of anywhere else to go, or asa way of doing seasonal work. Travelling up to Alaska to do fishing jobs, fighting wildfires on the west coast in the sum- mertime, doing the blueberry harvest in the north-east of the country or cran- berries in Washington State. But that isn’t the whole story. “It is very true that there are a lot of people in the world that truly have nowhere to be, and people are fleeing absolute atrocities,” said Allie. But people feel the pull to live this life for different reasons. “For some peo- ple, they don’t know why, but they just need to. It’s not really for anyone to judge whether your life has been terri- ble or great enough to justify you being a hobo or not. People always want to be like, who deserves this life? Everyone who finds it is looking for something, or going somewhere. Or just going.” The enticement of the open road, or rail, has long been understood as a par- ticularly American feeling. All that promise of freedom in a huge, infinitely explorable country, where a person might be able to begin afresh again and again and again. There is a partial romance to this life. You could feel it around at BBCRC. There was a wooden plank over the communal sink reading “Hobos of the world unite. For we are not related by blood, but by common interest and the pursuit of eternal hap- piness.” But not knowing whether you're going to find happiness or anguish is part of the pull. When you're train riding, said Allie, “you’re in sucha place of chaos, so you're just open to whatever misery or whatever extreme kindness happens to come along. It’s almost like letting go of being able to predict everything.” It’s a great unexamined question for many people, how to live with the fact that the future is fundamentally uncer- tain underneath all the trappings of security. Living a life on the rails puts you face to face with that fact, on an hour-by-hour basis, in a way that might be spiritually good for a person. To sit on a train with little to distract you for hun- dreds of miles but the scenery is to take a journey into oneself, too. “What’s real bad, though, is that then you don’t know how to be still,” as Allie put it. Railroad riders may not be a signifi- cant danger to society. Indeed, they exist in such small numbers these days that they’d hardly be worth worrying about much if they were. But they can be adanger to themselves. This is a hard life. You get freedom, but you pay for it in peril. It is, of course, illegal, although there’s not much incentive for police to arrest rail riders, Bruce told me. The nearest jail to the BBCRC is 50 miles away and overcrowded. Nor is there much in it for railworkers to call in hitchhikers. It means they have to stop the trains, throw off sched- ules, get home late. There's a lot of gate- keeping in the hobo com- munity, Bruce said, a hos- tility to newbies and out- siders. But that isn’t only about people wanting to keep the culture to them- selves. It’s a safety thing. There are forums online that share information about train times, good spots to catch on, security arrangements to avoid and so on. There is one private listserv that you have to be nominated to join, where people post guides to hoboing that aren't available anywhere else. And for good reason: a beginner coming across this information would be in real danger of getting hurt or killed. “I would never recommend that somebody just go down to a train track and try to start hopping trains,” one experienced train rider told me. “And if they’re committed to doing it, they should find somebody who already knows how to doit, find amentor.” Two of the most popular hobos on YouTube, Hobo Shoestring and Stobe the Hobo, have both died, one by drowning and one out on the rails, leav- ing their channels suddenly quiet. These are not high-speed machines — Union Pacific trains average around 25mph — yet hobos lose fingers, limbs and lives pretty frequently. Bruce could think of six who had died in the past two years, not from train accidents but from addiction-related incidents. All over the BBCRC there are signs advertising the availability of Narcan, a medication used to reverse opioid overdoses, for visitors who need it, either to use on the spot or to take away with them. “A lot of people that are drawn to trains have issues with drugs, with drinking, with just being socially isolated,” Bruce said, “and they find a community in the rail community, but that’s sometimes not enough.” There is also the danger of your fellow riders. Not everyone is as friendly or in control of themselves as the people I met at the BBCRC. As much as the hobo refuses to die, his world has changed. Rear units on trains didn’t used to be locked, but now they often are. Railway companies have beef- ier security, not just to deter train hop- pers but because of an increased emphasis on transport security in gen- eral in America post-9/11. And there is significant friction within the unhoused world between different types of tran- sient person. In one seminal train-riding documentary, John T Davis’s 1992 film Hobo, a group of train riders discuss their view that in the old days, hobos had more honour because they found it easier to find honest work. Now times are tougher, and it forces people to make money by less honourable means. Train riders don’t tend to like “home bums”, unhoused people who stay in one place, Bruce told me. This seems to go both ways. “I don’t hang with train bos, I don’t trust them,” said one unhoused person who doesn’t move around, who! met in Eugene, Ore- gon. “They’re mostly people on the edge of everything.” Then there's the old- school hobos, who think the punks are rowdy upstarts, versus the punks, who think that lot are tourist-friendly fakes. The authenticity of the BBCRC is something the people who run it will continue to reckon with. They want people to come, but they don’t want people to come. They put the yellow gate in the road a few years ago because Bindles against cattle corrals by the railroad track, Washington, Yakima Valley, near Toppenish, August 1939 Farm Security Administration/Office of War information/Library of Congress increasing numbers of people who weren't associated with the community were coming down by car, looking for somewhere to party. “You wanted to see some hobos, so you came to a gated community down a private road?” Mar- tin from Battersea teased me over a beer in the evening. Islept that night in one of the old box- cars that had a fold-out bed in it for peo- ple passing through. When I woke, I went down to Dunsmuir, a nearby town, to see who might be hanging around waiting to catch on that day. The railroad runs right alongside the Sacramento river, and trains often stop here to change crew. Over the other side of the train tracks from town and down a gravel slope, ina clearing that serves as a hobo jungle, I met a man in a shredded black T-shirt and cut-offs with a star tattoo on his face, listening to Motown on a smashed-up old iPhone. Gabriel, 24, has been a train rider since he was 18. He’s from Grants Pass, Oregon, originally, and today he was hitching a ride down to see friends in LA. This suited him asa spot to wait for the train because it was shady, close to a water source and he'd found a Bullfrog-brand citronella candle down here to ward off the mosquitoes. He laughed a lot, even when he was talking about things that weren't funny, laughs that often broke into a deep, Underneath all the security, the future is uncertain. Living a life on the rails puts you face to face with that hacking cough. “Weirdly, the guy who first took me on trains actually died about a year ago, and his name was Bull- frog,” said Gabriel. “It changed the way I travel completely, and now I can go any- where.” He has visited 40 states so far by riding trains. I asked him if that’s what he liked about train riding, the freedom to explore. “F**k yeah, and it’s free,” he said, “Can't beat that.” He rooted around in his big traveller’s backpack for some weed, a grinder and a bong, his beat- en-up cap with trinkets attached to its brim such as keys and fishing tackle tin- kling as he did so. A train shunted slowly into view up on the tracks, and we looked at it through the trees as it came to a halt. It’s not the right one, Gabriel said, but he’s in no rush. While he waited, he told me about a place in Shreveport, Louisiana, where you can get a particularly awesome daiquiri, and that he’s distantly related to Edward II. He hasn’t had much trouble with police or train guards. The people who make his life difficult, he said, are the “tweakers”, or drug users. “For us, peo- ple who ride trains, it makes it really hard. A lot of times they'll trash the city and it gives a stigma towards anyone who's outside [meaning transient].” Union Pacific has been increasing secu- rity in recent times because of the drug addicts. “Broad daylight, no f**ks given, they'll rob atrain,” Gabriel said. The train up on the tracks still showed no signs of leaving. I had places to be, and so eventually I said goodbye to Gabriel and decided to clamber through the train itself to get back into town. There is guidance about how to do this as safely as it is possible to do an unsafe thing. Three points of contact at all times with the train: two feet and a hand, or the other way around, always. As I climbed, I considered how I would feel if the train began to move and I found myself unexpectedly en route to wherever it was next going to stop. Stu- pid, reckless, afraid and massively inconvenienced, no doubt. But also somewhat free. TOPS PPPS EES PEEP U PEEP Pee eee Pee eee eee eee Pee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee ee eee eee Pee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee) CEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EERE Ee EERE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EER EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE CEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EE EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEA EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE OEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EERE EEE EE EEE EE EERE EE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EERE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE REAR EE EEE EEE TEER EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE E EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EE EEE EEE EERE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE In a country that is now rich and respectable, mainstream politicians shuddered at the prospect of an alleged crime boss with apparent access to cash and weapons and links to contract killers sitting alongside them in the Dail, Ireland’s parliament. (The FT was unable to reach Hutch for comment. He has denied ever being involved in organ- ised crime.) The voters were another matter. In the city streets where he cut his teeth as a child robber, The Monk said “the peo- ple” had insisted he run. He was hope- lessly light on policy detail, but pledged to do “what [the people] want”. His record in sorting out local disputes was, he said, evidence of his suitability for the job. The stakes were raised further when, after the first day of counting, it looked as though Hutch might defy the odds. But by the time the constituency results were finally called on Sunday, he’d lost by 781 votes. After congratulating the candidate who pipped him, Hutch left. The final surreal sight was of The Monk breaking into a jog to distance himself from the trailing media pack. In his wake, he left an air of lingering puzzle- ment and a confused nation trying to make sense of it all. Streets around Connolly train station, just north of Dublin’s River Liffey, remain some of the dingiest and most crime-ridden in Ireland’s capital. Pov- erty was rife when Gerard Hutch was born there in 1963, one of eight children brought up in a council flat. “You were bloody starving,” he told the Crime World podcast in November. Jobs in the nearby docks, where his father was a labourer, shrank dramati- cally in the 1970s. By the mid-1980s, nearly three-quarters of heads of house- holds there were unemployed. But Hutch was never looking for a steady job. He had little choice, as he saw it. “You had to get into crime to feed your- self, never mind dress yourself,” he told His first jail sentence came at 15 when he was sent to an adult prison, where he taught himself to read the national broadcaster RTE in 2008. After his first conviction — a fine for swiping a bottle of lemonade at the age of eight — he became a key member of a teenage gang dubbed the “Bugsy Malones”, specialising in jumping over the counters of banks or businesses to grab cash. By age 11, he was in reform school. His first jail sentence came at 15 when he was sent to an adult prison, where he taught himself to read. He has not been convicted of any crime since 1983. The north inner-city area has changed considerably these days, says Nial Ring, a local councillor who has known Hutch and his family for dec- ades. The building that once housed a notorious Magdalene Laundry for unmarried mothers still casts a pall, but otherwise the landscape is vastly improved. In a hipster café on North Strand Road, Ring talks enthusiastically about the money that has been pumped into schools and new housing. Despite the improvements, Ring says, people here “still feel a bit marginal- ised . .. there’s the assumption that if you re from the inner-city, you're up to no good”. This residual wariness could be one reason why many locals are reluctant to talk to me about Hutch, despite the Robin Hood reputation he has cultivated here. One habit the north inner-city has not been able to kick is drugs. “Crack cocaine, big time,” says Ring, sighing. Back in the 1980s, it was heroin. Hutch, who saw the effect it had on close friends and family, vowed to steer clear. By his early twenties, however, he had developed a reputation among police for being a violent and feared major criminal. He was a prime suspect for a string of daring heists, including what was, in 1987, the biggest armed robbery in Irish history, when three men intercepted a Securicor van at the Bank of Ireland in Marino Mart, north Dublin, and made off with IRL£1.4mn. Hutch has always denied involvement and was not charged, despite the High Court in Belfast later ruling that £75,000 in an account in his name was part of the haul. Eight years later, an even more auda- cious robbery took place at the Brinks- Allied cash-holding depot in north Continued on page 20 The pessimists Simon Kuper World view t’s odd that the European response to being abandoned by Donald Trump was bafflement. After all, Trump had long signalled that he admired Vladimir Putin and felt unattached to Nato. Yet his plan for “peace” in Ukraine seemed to shock European officials. It’s partly because they had hoped for the best so as to avoid preparing for the worst. But it’s also because they didn’t think the world worked this way: an aggressor attacks a country that was minding its own business and is rewarded. Westerners of our generation don't tend to expect the bad guys to win, because we were raised to believe in progress. That belief gave us a false conceptual frame for reading the world. Western faith in progress was a blend of Judeo-Christian morality and Enlightenment reason. God smites the wicked, people grow wiser, and scientific advances improve life. My 90-year-old aunt may remain stricken by her brother’s death from measles in 1939, but medicine was eradicating tragedy. Our films and fairy tales reinforced this optimism. Good guys win the shoot-outs, and Cinderella lives happily ever after. The good-guy theory of history seemed confirmed by actual western history. Our central modern morality tale was victory over Hitler, followed by the west’s historically anomalous 80-year “Long Peace”, based on an international order built by the US, the good sheriff. As Napoleon supposedly said, “To understand the man, you have to know what was happening in the world when he was 20.” When I was 20, a global progressive moment left me with an enduring cognitive bias towards optimism. In three months from November 1989, eastern European communism fell and Nelson Mandela walked out of jail. Freedom had triumphed, because people wanted freedom. It felt like a law of history. The label “progressive” itself denotes belief in progress. The last great progressive politician, Barack Obama, believed, like Martin Luther King Jr, that “The arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends towards justice.” His election-winning slogan was, “Yes, we can.” Belief in progress remained tenable for a few more years. I wrote in the FT in 2014: “Humans have been getting more educated, rich and internationally connected, and more likely to live in democracies. These factors would tend to reduce violence. Indeed, by some definitions, there have been no interstate wars since 2008.” I wrote soon after: have won the argument Harry Haysom “Perhaps there is progress in history after all.” I now suspect it was mostly well-off westerners who believed in progress. In unluckier parts of the world and in lower western social classes, a pessimistic view prevails. It’s inculcated early. Studies of Russian and American children’s stories, led by Amy Halberstadt of North Carolina State University and Yulia Chentsova Dutton of Georgetown University, found “the text of Russian books referenced anger and sadness more often than the US books”. Russian illustrations also depicted “anger and fear more frequently”. Some historical pessimists believe that the world is run by conspiracies of bankers, elite paedophiles, CIA plotters, et cetera. Religious pessimists believe that this world is a vale of tears, with reward coming in the afterlife. Other pessimists conclude, based on their countries’ experiences, that rather than good guys winning, the law Westerners of our generation dont tend to expect the bad guys to win, because we were raised to believe in progress of history is might makes right. Trump became the first successful American politician to voice historical pessimism. He blames elite conspiracies for sabotaging the US. In geopolitics, he disdains the good-guy theory and believes in might. Russia is stronger than Ukraine, and all else follows from that. I’m belatedly warming up to historical pessimism. Even scientific progress has limited value. We now have vaccines against measles, but also a US health secretary, Robert F Kennedy Jr, who spreads doubt about vaccines. As for tech, this century it has probably worsened our lives. We now average nearly seven hours a day online, alone, increasingly atomised, stripped of privacy, absorbing nonsense. And think of other technological “advances”. True, vaccines contained Covid- 19, but the CIA concluded that the pandemic probably began with a Chinese lab leak. Processed foods fuelled global obesity. Nuclear proliferation may worsen as the US stops protecting its allies. Above all, the technology of burning carbon has caused a kind of untreated planetary cancer. Being raised on Russian children’s stories might have helped us grasp all this. simon. kuper@ft.com 20 Magazine
