METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: By Pilita Clark o we need a nuclear power revival? Is China going to wreck or save the climate? A...
ID: 146

CONTENT:
By Pilita Clark o we need a nuclear power revival? Is China going to wreck or save the climate? And what’s the most honest way to think about the chal- lenge of global warming? The latest crop of climate books throw up some unex- pected answers to these questions. Dutch environmental journalist, Marco Visscher, once thought nuclear power should be abolished before it could ruin the 21st century. Today he thinks it is a miracle technology, as he explains in The Power of Nuclear: The Rise, Fall and Return of Our Mightiest Energy Source (Bloomsbury £18.99). His reassessment began when he noticed a growing number of politicians and environmentalists beginning to defend nuclear energy. That prompted him to investigate the meltdowns, toxic waste and many other charges levelled against this powerful source of low car- bon power. “After a while it dawned on me: just about everything we think we know about nuclear power turns out to be wrong,’ he writes. When he looked into the nuclear acci- dents at Chernobyl, Three Mile Island and Fukushima he discovered the death tolls from either the accidents them- selves or later fallout was far lower than widely assumed. Fears about the industry are over- blown, he argues, not least because the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki cemented the technology’s horrific power to kill in the public’s mind. His argument in favour of nuclear power, not bombs, has gathered force since his buok was first published, im Dutch, in 2022. Since then, Google, Microsoft and Amazon have done nuclear deals to sup- ply their energy-thirsty data centres, and fears have grown that global warm- ing may be accelerating faster than sci- entists expected. One country expanding its nuclear power capacity is China, the country that is simultaneously the world’s green technology superpower and biggest emitter of planet-warming carbon emis- sions. Beijing’s plans to cut those emis- sions, and grapple with other environ- mental woes, is a matter of intense interest outside China and environmen- tal campaigner Ma Tianjie offers answers in his book, In Search of Green China (Polity £17.99). It charts the role played by ordinary citizens and concerned bureaucrats in the decades-long struggle to clean up China’s polluted rivers, tackle its chok- ing air pollution and find a way to boost economic growth while keeping a lid on emissions. Ma's reporting shows that, as in the west, Chinese government efforts to enforce green policies face an array of political hurdles. In 2014, when China set a deadline for its carbon emissions to peak by “around 2030”, the powerful National Development and Reform Commission economic planning agency was expected to take a big role meeting the new target. But as Ma writes, “not every- one was on board with the idea”. The agency's growing power was already upsetting local governments and busi- nesses that complained about excessive red tape. In an effort to cut bureaucratic delays, approval of coal-fired power plants was handed to provincial govern- ments, with sobering consequences for the peaking goal. In the first six months of 2015, more than 23 gigawatts of new coal-fired power plants were brought online, a 55 per cent jump from the same period a year earlier. The struggle to tackle climate change drove university professor and carbon consultant, Mike Berners-Lee, to write A Climate of Truth: Why We Need It and How fo Get It (Cambridge University Press £14.99). This feisty title is something of a departure from How Bad Are Bananas?. Today he’s more worried about humanity hurtling into “a deadly Polycrisis” as it fails to deal with climate change, food insecurity, escalating pollution and more. One of the most critical steps towards dealing with this, he argues, is to raise standards of honesty in politics, business and the media. By this he means it is time to call out the politicians, news organisations, companies and think tanks whose behaviour is hampering efforts to tackle the polycrisis effectively. He offers a list of reputable alternatives, and several courses of action people can take. Unless you pro- test about this, he writes, you will die knowing you “colluded in humanity’s greatest ever atrocity”. German sociologist Jens Beckert makes another attempt to honestly ana- lyse the failure to tackle the climate problem in How We Sold Our Future: The Failure to Fight Climate Change (Polity £25). His bleak but compelling argument is that, despite the commit- ments that governments and businesses make to tackle climate change, neither will ever act decisively because to do so would jeopardise the corporate profits, tax revenues and GDP growth that both require to prosper. Individuals are not much better. There is no mass movement calling for people to reject the consumerism that fuels climate change, as Beckert writes, because consumption is so important for our social identity. He insists this is no reason to give up, which it isn’t. But his book, like all those listed here, none- theless remind us that the barriers to cli- mate action are not always as obvious as they may seem. ee ee eer eee ee ee ee ee eee eee eer eee ee eee eee eee Pe ee ee ee ee ee eee ee ee eee ee ee Pee ee ee ee ee ee OPP Pee. SPP e eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee ee eee eee eee eee eee Cee eee eee eee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee ee eee eee eee Pee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee Pee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee ee Pee eee ee Pe eee eee eee Cee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee Pee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee Pee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee ees CORTE EEE EERE EERE EE EEE EE EEE EERE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE TEE EERE EERE EERE OEE EEE EEE Ee Te EE Te FEET ET Te TE EE Ee Te Ee Te Ee TTT Tee eee ee The thing with feathers Ellen Peirson-Hagger ona gothic tale of cruelty, trauma and women complicit in the worst of the patriarchy eather Parry’s fourth book Carrion Crow is a distress- ing, claustrophobic read. Set in London’s Chelsea in the late 19th century, Mar- guerite Périgord, the 19-year-old daughter of a once aristocratic French family, is confined to the attic by her mother “for the sake of her wellbeing”. Marguerite is engaged to be married to a Mr George Lewis, a solicitor 35 years her senior. Her mother, Cécile, doesn't believe she is quite ready for married life. So she leads Marguerite to the attic, where the lack of light will allow her to “acquire the upper-class pallor” required of a new wife, and the small meals that Cécile delivers on a tray will help Marguerite “establish within herself the reserved palate and physical restraint of the married lady”. For company Marguerite has only he works of Victor Hugo, Mrs Beeton’s Book of Household Management, and a black-and-gold sewing machine — she is surrounded by the expectations of her class and of her gender. Quickly bored, she starts poking around in the crumbling rafters and discovers a car- rion crow nesting in the roof. As Mar- guerite begins to feel more and more abandoned, she notices the crow has laid eggs and is preparing to raise its own family. Glasgow-based Parry, whose previous books include the novel Orpheus Builds a Girl and the non-fiction work Electric Dreams: On Sex Robots and the Failed Promises of Capitalism, has said that she based Carrion Crow on the tale of Blanche Monnier, a French socialite whose mother and brother kept her secretly locked inside for 25 years. At first Marguerite believes she is being kept in the attic for a couple of weeks. Then she begins to lose track of time, but thinks the number of nights are increasing between her mother’s meal deliveries. Mr Lewis stops writing her letters. Her hair begins to fall out. It’s an absorbing story, if an utterly disgusting one. Parry describes, in vivid detail, how “Marguerite could entertain herself for hours with the investigation of her own tonsils”, making herself retch in order to bring up “a beige nug- get of matter” that she then plays with, enjoying its putrid smell. On another occasion she steals an egg from the crow’s nest and eats it — raw. Later she takes a doll she has made from torn bed sheets and, dreaming of becoming a mother, stitches it on to her stomach, “beneath the divot where her ribs met”. The precision of Parry's prose leads to some gag-inducing scenes. Yet she maintains an intriguing vagueness as she narrates her character’s turn to HEATHER PARRY Carrion Crow by Heather Parry Doubleday £16.99 256 pages
