METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: EXHIBITING AT TEFAF MAASTRICHT 2025 13 - 20 MARCH 2025 10 ohn Perry Barlow’s intoxicating dream i...
ID: 141

CONTENT:
EXHIBITING AT TEFAF MAASTRICHT 2025 13 - 20 MARCH 2025 10 ohn Perry Barlow’s intoxicating dream is fading fast and may soon vaporise altogether. In 1996, the American poet stirred the imagination of a generation by proclaiming sovereignty for the nas- cent internet in his Declaration of the Independence of Cyberspace. For the first time in history, this virgin, virtual territory would allow new global com- munities and fresh ideas to flourish, unconstrained by any terrestrial power. “You have no moral right to rule us nor do you possess any methods of enforcement we have true reason to fear,” he wrote. “We will create a civilis- ation of the Mind in Cyberspace.” Barlow's utopian imaginings of an oth- erworldly civilisation grew from the compost of the hippie-trippy, flower- power counterculture of 1960s San Fran- cisco. This way of thinking seeped into the highly individualistic, anti-establish- ment entrepreneurial ethos of Silicon Valley, which viewed any incursion by Washington — or its attendant military- industrial complex — with suspicion. It later informed the “Don't Be Evil” cul- ture of the tech giants, such as Google, that came to dominate the internet. But as we saw at the inauguration of Donald Trump, Silicon Valley has expe- rienced a radical vibe shift as the besuited bosses of many of the biggest US tech companies metaphorically prostrated themselves at the feet of an imperial president. Now camped out in Washington, Tesla’s self-proclaimed “Technoking” Elon Musk — whose busi- ness interests span rocket ships, satellite networks and social media — embodies a new embrace between technological and political power. Meanwhile authoritarian govern- ments, most notably in China, Russia and Iran, have hijacked cyber space for their own geopolitical ends. Rather than a means of liberation, cyber space has increasingly become an instrument of geopolitical control. According to Alexander Karp and Nicholas Zamiska, two top executives from Palantir Technologies, a company that is intertwined with the national security state, Silicon Valley’s utopian tech thinking was always untethered from reality and it’s a good thing that it is now ending. Fixating on the fickle whims of consumers rather than the strategic needs of the public by provid- ing photo-sharing platforms and chat apps, the founders of many technology companies have tried — and failed — to escape from the country that enabled their emergence. “Silicon Valley has lost its way,” they thunder in the opening sentence of their provocative book The Technological Republic. “The problem is that tolerance of everything often constitutes belief in nothing.” For too long, the authors claim, Sili- con Valley directed its energies, talent and capital to the “trivial and ephem- eral”. It must now rebuild its relation- ship with government and redirect its efforts to tackling the biggest challenges we face, such as healthcare, education and science. In particular, it must lean into the defence of the nation, as Pal- antir has done by providing intelligence analysis platforms for the military, and help preserve the west’s “enduring yet fragile” geopolitical advantage. In short, Silicon Valley must help the US win the technological arms race with China. Such is the electroshock that Presi- dent Trump has already delivered to the system that the book’s criticisms already feel a little dated, as if the authors were jousting against the wind. Still, they help explain the sudden and extraordinary change of worldview that has seized much of the US tech elite. Although the authors are unlikely to welcome the description, their book may be read asa manifesto for the “tech industrial com- plex” that President Joe Biden warned against in his farewell address. FT Weekend Books 22 February/23 February 2025 Genesis of anew world order Essay | From a Silicon Valley at the service of the US military, to regulators outpaced by Al's inhuman speed — John Thornhill on three books that explore evolving scenarios Above: inside an Equinix data centre near Paris WaTnhan Laine B JOTTDS!O The Technological Republic: Hard Power, Soft Belief and the Future of the West by Alexander C Karp and Nicholas W Zamiska Bodley Head £25/ Crown Currency $30, 320 pages World Builders: Technology and the New Geopolitics by Bruno Mac4es Cambridge University Press £22.99, 274 pages Genesis: Artificial intelligence, Hope, and the Human Spirit by Henry A Kissinger, Eric Schmidt and Craig Mundie John Murray £22/ Little, Brown $30, 288 pages Even if Karp and Zamiska are critical of Silicon Valley’s ethos, they remain evangelistic about its methods and its astonishing innovative capabilities. The founder-led, software-enabled, start-up approach to innovation has powered the rise of some of the most valuable companies in history. As of 2024, US tech companies were worth $21.4tn — equivalent to 86 per cent of the total value of the world’s 50 biggest tech companies. These comp- anies’ expertise in software and AI will now ensure they play an increasingly critical role in defence. “How will the state ensure that this engineering elite remains subservient and accountable to the public?” the authors ask. It is a good question that they never fully answer. Indeed, despite copious references to philosophers (including Sir Isaiah Berlin and Michael Sandel), the book is disappointingly light in examining the potential downsides of this US version of military-civil fusion. Few qualms are expressed about the moral conse- quences of developing lethal auto- nomous weapons systems or the wide- spread use by the police of facial recogni- tion technology. Nor is much mention made of the self- interest involved: companies such as Palantir stand to make a fortune from this software-enabled national security state. Even so, The Technological Republic offers a fascinating, if at times disturb- ing, insight into the reassertion of US hard power. The lingering question, as Marxists would say, is whether Trump represents the death throes of the old world order or birth pangs of the new. In World Builders, Bruno Macaes, a former Portuguese politician turned analyst, takes a broader, more historical perspective, exploring the interconnec- tions between technological advances and geopolitical change. In his analysis, there have been four great geopolitical moments in modern times that have resulted in different ways of building, and understanding, the world. The first came at the beginning of the 1900s, when the whole world became subject to measurement and control. Rather than attempting to discover new territories, the geopolitical struggle revolved around establishing and enforcing different blueprints for the mapped world. The second arrived with the invention of nuclear weapons, which made humanity both “omnipotent and totally impotent,” permanently teeter- ing on the edge of global destruction. The third was the re-emergence of China on the world stage this century and its attempts to build a different cul- ture and development model. But the fourth moment that is only just beginning is the era of software automation. We are moving from a world of atoms to one of bits leading to virtual rivalries. Competition between the US and China has become invisible and indirect, and involves internet standards and protocols as much as rockets and battleships. Today’s great game is a “game whose purpose is to create the rules of the game, writes Macaes. He adds: “Geo- politics is the struggle not to control territory but to create territory. When your opponent is building a fully artifi- cial or technological world that could eventually redefine your own reality, geopolitics becomes not merely existen- tial but ontological.” Karl Rove, a political consultant under President George W Bush, was one of the first to understand and articu- late the new rules of the game, accord- ing to Macaes. “We are an empire now, and when we act, we create our own reality. And while you are studying that reality, we will act again, creating other new realities,” Rove was reported to have said in 2004. Chinese observers were quick to notice that the west had won the cold war “without gunpowder”, highlighting the importance of ideological power. As an antidote and a challenge, President Xi Jinping has launched his own “China dream” emphasising the renewal of the nation. This has unleashed a rivalry between two imaginary worlds or “a Al, deployed appropriately, can become an invaluable partner to humanity — but it also poses huge risks competition between designers or pro- grammers to determine which of them can build the most powerful dream machine.” Macaes’s exploration of this virtual dimension of geopolitics is compelling, as far as it goes. It will now be interesting to see how far the Trump presidency represents a continuation, or a rupture, of the dynamic that Macaes identifies. As Karp and Kamiska explain, the US is now intent on reasserting its hard power. Trump himself has showna keen interest in international real estate opportunities by eyeing expansion in Greenland, Canada, Panama and Gaza, in a seeming return to the more traditional imperial impulses of the 19th century. China, too, has made clear its determination to win control of Tai- wan. And the war in Ukraine has shown that ultimately the world of atoms weighs more heavily than that of bits. At an even higher level of abstraction, Henry Kissinger, Craig Mundie and Eric Schmidt explore the ways in which the wonder technology of our age — artificial intelligence — will change the human condition. Genesis was the last book the veteran US statesman wrote before his death in 2023 in collaboration with two leading technologists. The authors con- tend that Al, deployed appropriately, can become an invaluable partner to humanity — but warn that the techno- logy also poses huge risks. “Al's future faculties, operating at inhuman speeds, will render traditional regulation use- less. We will need a fundamentally new form of control,” they write. The big question, the authors ask, is one of alignment: will humans become more like AI or will AI become more human? Their sobering, if realistic, take is that: “Far more work is needed to render our machines, and ourselves, transparent, legible, and reliable.” Macaes, too, acknowledges the dan- gers of Alas the “culmination of ideolog- ical power’, which may make it impossi- ble to identify the human will behind the machine. He concludes his book with a more dystopian quotation from Frank Herbert's science-fiction saga Dune. “Once men turned their thinking over to machines in the hope that this would set them free,” the Reverend Mother says. “But that only permitted other men with machines to enslave them.” Such discussions take us a very long way from John Perry Barlow’s dreams about the promise of technology. Will we ever be able to revive them? John Thornhill is the FT’s innovation editor PERU T TT EOE TEE EES ETL EET LEE ETE ET EEE EEL LEE LEE TLE LL LLL LLEELLL eee Te eees Ce eee Peer eee re reer Cee e ee Cee CTP CP Ce eee Pe eee ee CCC TCT OT Pee Tee ce Pee eT Pee eee eee Pee Cee eee eee ee ee) Pee ee eee ee Pee Pee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee ee eee ee eee eee ee eee eee ee eee eee ra ee Ter TT Tee TT Eee Te TET TEE LL LE LLL LeeLee eee Cee eee eee ee eee COP e CCC eee Teese) POeee eC eeee TC OCee TT CEUU TCC SUC CCCP UC CECT TP CPUC PERC CEPT Pee Ce Cee Pee eee ee Pee eee eee ee ee ee eee ee ee ee eee eee ee ee eee eee ee ee ee ee PPP ee ree ee eee eee. er ere ee ee ee eres Se eer Tee Tere ree Tere eee Te ee eee eee ee eee eT eee eee TT eee ee eT eee Te eee eT Teer Te ee Tree eT TTT Tee eee Pee ee ee Pee eT Te eee. Sere eT TT eee Tere eT) Tee ee eT eee ee Te eee. TT eee TT eee eee eee ee ee eee TT eee Tee TP eee ee eee eT eee eee eee EPP eT CPP eee Tee Te Tee Te eee PPP eee Pee ee rT? TT ee eT CPC CCC Cee ee. CeCe eT Cee Cee eee, TEPC TCC C TT CCPC CT TPC eT PCP CPT CPC PCCP Pee TPP CP CPE eT eCe eT TPP ee Pee eee ee eee Pe eee eee eee eee ee) Pee eee eee Pee eee eee ee Victor Mallet ona biography of Kim Il Sung that explores the improbable coincidences that propelled him to power ur era of powerful dicta- tors and authoritarian presidents is a good time to learn more about North Korea's Kim II Sung, the ultimate totalitarian leader of the post- war period — particularly when his grandson Kim Jong Un has just sent thousands of his troops to fight for fellow dictator Vladimir Putin in Rus- sia’s war against Ukraine. Fyodor Tertitskiy’s comprehensive biography Accidental Tyrant also helps us to understand how Kim gained power, how he kept it for himself and his descendants, and above all how other leaders — starting with Stalin and Mao — helped him to do so and allowed North Korea to destabilise north-east Asia and the wider world until today. Tertitskiy, an academic and North Korea specialist of Russian origin based in South Korea, has drawn on Korean, Russian, Chinese and Japanese sources for his latest book. He concludes that while the brave and cunning Kim can- not be caricatured as “a man of pure evil”, there is no doubt that he is the darkest figure in Korean history. “He was the man who instigated the most destructive war Korea has ever seen,” Tertitskiy writes, “the man who created one of the most repressive states in human history, the man whose economic policy ended in mass famine and the man who did his utmost to ensure this order would be preserved after his death.” Given that the rewriting of history and spreading of lies for political ends is of grave concern today in countries such as Russia and China — and even in demo- cracies such as the US and the UK — one of the merits of this biography is that it demonstrates how Kim and his regime became masters of the art. Over the years, they changed facts about the life of the “Great Leader” and about North Korea until the falsehoods reached the absolute, Orwellian levels of untruth that we see today. Like Mao in neighbouring China (as documented in Jung Chang and Jon Hal- liday’s biography Mao: The Unknown Story), Kim found it essential to hide the truth that his rise to power was engi- neered by Stalin and the Soviet Commu- nist party and was not purely self-made. With the help of the Soviets, he invented a past in which he led the “Korean Peo- ple’s Revolutionary Army’, a fictional force eventually mythologised into something so glorious that it was said to have defeated Japan in the second world war in 1945 with only minor help from the Allies. Born Kim Song Ju to a Protestant fam- ily near Pyongyang under Japanese occupation, Kim did as a young man fight for the partisans in Manchuria, but when they were defeated he crossed the border into the Soviet Union in 1940 and was drafted into the Red Army. He spoke Russian and gave his children Accidental ACCIDENTAL Tyrant: The Life hayes of Kim Il-sung Fyodor Tertitskiy 5 Hurst £25, 352 pages > er pon FYODOR TERTITSKIY | Russian names. The son born in 1941 was called Yura, a diminutive form of Georgiy, and was probably named after the Red Army general Georgy Zhukov; Yura is now better known as Kim Jong Il, the “Dear Leader” who succeeded his father and was said by Pyongyang’s propagandists to have been born not in the Soviet Union but in a secret guerrilla camp on Korea's Mount Paektu. Kim Il Sung was seen by Moscow as “sufficiently native and sufficiently Soviet”. But when they installed him to lead North Korea in 1945 he initially made an unimpressive debut. He was an “accidental” tyrant, says Tertitskiy, because only some improbable coinci- dences and the timing of the US atomic bombs dropped on Japan propelled him to power. “For the first time, the Pyongyangites heard his unusually hoarse voice,” his biographer writes. “He read his short speech hailing Stalin and the Red Army and calling for national unity. This speech had been written for him by the Soviets and then translated into Korean. At the time, Kim was not fluent in Korean — since his youth, he had mostly spoken in Chinese and later in Russian and could not communicate in Korean as anative speaker.” This was the man who went on to launch and nearly lose the Korean war by invading the South in the 1950s, who tried and failed to launch a second war in the 1960s, who starved and terrified his own people, who promoted the incomprehensible “Juche” (driving force) ideology that baffled even his most loyal propagandists. This was the man who divided his 20mn subjects, Brave New World-style, into the three categories of “nucleus force”, “middle force” and “people of counter-revolu- tionary components”, a system later developed into 23 and then 71 different classes of citizen. At home, Kim presided over and ensured the continuation of the most repressive society on the planet. Abroad, he and his descendants have sought to destabilise and defraud other countries with cyber attacks and the threat of nuclear war and conducted a foreign policy lacking even the pretence of morality. For North Korea, “Earth is a dog-eat- dog world where all relationships are of convenience and all diplomacy is about cheating your partner to maximise your profits,” writes Tertitskiy. “Any tactical advantage gained should be immedi- ately exploited; long-term conse- quences be damned.” Kim II Sung’s per- nicious legacy persists, and not just in North Korea. Victor Mallet is a former FT Asia editor 22 February/23 February 2025 * FT Weekend
