METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: INTERIORS ARCHITEC TURE GARDENS _ Dahlias, Dior and me Cordelia de Castellane’s couture idyll in ...
ID: 161

CONTENT:
INTERIORS ARCHITEC TURE GARDENS _ Dahlias, Dior and me Cordelia de Castellane’s couture idyll in France — carvens paces Follow us on Instagram @ft_houseandhome ~~“) S = * See 8 ee © Li GOB ata i 4 ee : ‘ Oy ~ on De Jaa ee 7 “? ee . POO Et ee i i ¥.% Downtown Cairo was once Egypt's nexus of cosmopolitan culture and society. Now, a handful of divergent forces are reviving its Belle Epoque streets for a new generation. By Maria Shollenbarger hen the Egyptian writer Alaa Al Aswany’s The Yacoubian Building was published in 2002, it almost instantly entered the canon of modern Arab liter- ature. Set at the turn of the century, the novel reflects back on the demise of a privileged Egyptian way of life in the decades after the 1952 revolution, via the intersecting stories of multiple pro- tagonists: an ageing aristocratic play- boy, a young policeman, a closeted newspaper editor, a shop girl. But the most compelling protagonist might be the one in its title, where it all plays out: the Yacoubian Building. Built in 1937, designed by an Italian architect, it sits at the intersection of Talaat Harb and Abd El Khalik Tharwat streets in the heart of Downtown Cairo — a bricks- and-mortar semaphore for a golden era in the city’s history. Particularly between the world wars, Cairo was the Arab world’s cosmopoli- tan capital, and Downtown its nexus of culture and society. The fruit of an ambitious Haussmann-inspired mod- ernisation plan conceived by Egypt's late 19th-century ruler Khedive Isma’il Pasha, its avenues are lined with the Belle Epoque buildings that earned Cairo its “Paris along the Nile” reputa- tion. In their heyday they bustled with cafés, jazz bars and elegant shops at street level, while in the apartments above them worldly Egyptians and their expatriate counterparts hosted salons and conducted business. But Gamal Abdel Nasser’s 1952 mili- tary coup augured the beginning of that era’s end. Downtown’s denizens began to trickle away, across the Nile to the leafy island enclave of Zamalek, or east to Heliopolis, or out into new suburbs; the fine shops and cafés slowly followed. New rent-reduction and control reforms (counterintuitively called the Old Rental Law) and the nationalisation of private properties gutted landlording prospects — as recently as last year, there were Downtown flats going for as little as E£10 (about 16p) a month — and entire buildings were converted into shops by their owners for the more lucrative commercial rents they com- manded. Pollution and neglect dulled and degraded the patrician facades. Seven decades later, and 14 years after a second revolution upended the coun- try, a handful of divergent forces are working to put Downtown Cairo’s star back in the ascendant. Which isn’t nec- essarily an expected development. While Greater Cairo’s current popula- tion of around 22mn is triple what it was in 1984, much of the newer real estate development is concentrated in and around New Cairo, Sheikh Zayed City and 6th of October, all areas along the outskirts of Cairo proper. Many are gated compounds, combining mixed- use development (malls, sports facili- ties) with low-rise apartment blocks and villas. Downtown represents some- thing entirely different: atmosphere, heritage buildings, creative stimula- tions and the buzz — some might say the cacophony — of genuine urban life, in one of the few neighbourhoods in the city where diverse socio-demographic groups interact on a daily basis. And while the neighbourhood mani- fests sentimental value for many Egyp- tians, its development potential hasn't been lost on the state. In an effort to generate foreign direct investment, the government of president Abdel Fattah al-Sisi entrusted a portfolio of state- owned Downtown monuments, includ- ing the monolith Mogamma building on Tahrir Square, to TSFE, a sovereign wealth fund set up in 2018. The Mogammaa is currently being developed into an Autograph hotel, one of the Mar- riott Collection’s luxury brands, in a $200mn project. Walk along Downtown’s main thor- oughfares — Talaat Harb, Qasr El Nil, Sherif Basha, Mahmoud Bassiouny —
