METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: INTERNATIONAL Pee eee PERE SS PESO Cee eee See eee Pee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee Pee eee eee ee e...
ID: 109

CONTENT:
INTERNATIONAL Pee eee PERE SS PESO Cee eee See eee Pee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee Pee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee Pee ee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee ee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee ee eee Pee eee eee eee Pee eee ee eee Pee eee ee eee Pee eee eee eee Pee ee eee eee ee eee ee eee eee Pee ee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee ee eee ee eee eee ee) CEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EERE EERE EERE EEE EE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE OE EE EEE EEE REET EE EERE EERE EEE EE EERE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EERE EERE EE EEE CREE EEE EERE EE CREE EERE EEE EE EEE EEE EERE EEE EERE EEE EEE EERE EERE EE EEE EERE EE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EERE EEE EERE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE SERRE EE EERE EEE EEE E EEE EEE ERED EERE EE EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE SEER EEE EERE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EERE EERE EEE EEE ERE EH HEED TT ee eee eee Tee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee ee eee eee eee ee ee ee ee ee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee ee ee ee eee eee ee eee ee eee ee ee eee eee ee ee eee ee ee eee ee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee ee ee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee Pee ee eee eee eee eee eee ee ee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee Russian economy Putin signals return of western business Kremlin prepares to accept companies that left after the invasion of Ukraine MAX SEDDON — BERLIN Vladimir Putin has ordered his cabinet to prepare for the return of western companies in a sign of a potential corpo- rate renaissance from the unfolding US-Russia rapprochement. Russia's president said yesterday that he wanted Russian companies to have “certain advantages” over “those that return to our market” as payback for western sanctions. While the measures would be defen- sive, the comments are the first top- level indication that Russia is serious about welcoming back western compa- nies after Putin's full-scale invasion of Ukraine three years ago sparked a cor- porate exodus. Since then, 472 foreign companies have left the Russian market, with a further 1,360 scaling back their pres- ence in the country, according to data compiled by the Kyiv School of Econom- ics Institute. Putin's call with his US counterpart, Donald Trump, last week was followed by the countries’ first high-level talks in three years in Saudi Arabia, where both sides expressed an interest in resuming economic co-operation. Kirill Dmitriev, the Russian sovereign wealth fund head who helped to broker the talks, claims US companies lost $324bn from pulling out of the country and has said he expects some to return this year. The KSE institute says US companies had $52bn in assets in Russia, while those that left generated just $36bn from 2021 to 2023. A handful have expressed tentative interest in resuming their Russian oper- ations, according to people familiar with the matter, although none has yet taken any active steps to return. Foreign minister Sergei Lavrov said Russia should let western companies into sectors only “where there will be no risks for the economy” in case “anyone gets off on the wrong foot again”. The prospect of western businesses return- ing to Russia has prompted an unusu- ally active public discussion among sen- ior officials in Moscow. While some have indicated that the likes of Visa and Mas- tercard, as well as several western lux- ury brands, would be welcome, others have said they should take a back seat to their Russian ersatz replacements. Denis Manturov, first deputy prime minister, said detailed discussions were unlikely until western countries rolled back sanctions, a prospect the US floated after the talks in Saudi Arabia. He said Russia was prepared to dis- cuss resuming co-operation with Boe- ing, previously one of the largest buyers of Russian titanium, but admitted the cabinet had held no discussions with the US aircraft manufacturer. Other offi- cials have implied western companies would find it hard to claw back market position after local players — in many cases, with strong links to senior Krem- lin figures — emerged to replace them. Moscow mayor Sergei Sobyanin said Renault would “hardly have a chance” of returning to Russia after the com- pany's chief executive refused to rule out the prospect. The French carmaker sold its control- ling stake in Russian car producer Avtovaz for two roubles in 2022, amounting to a €2.2bn writedown, but maintains a six-year buyback option. Legal experts say Adams court case shows Trump using DoJ to advance his political agenda GUY CHAZAN — NEW YORK Eric Adams, mayor of New York City, was once a rising star in the Democratic party, a former police captain dedicated to confronting violent crime who was popular with middle-class Black and Latino voters. But his reputation began to wane months after taking office as federal authorities investigated him for corrup- tion. Nowit is in tatters, as critics accuse him of trying to save his own skin by selling out to President Donald Trump. Adams’ detractors say he has entered into a Faustian pact with the Trump administration by agreeing to crack down on illegal immigration in exchange for federal corruption charges against him being dropped. Adams has denied such an arrange- ment. But even erstwhile Democratic allies accuse him of placing his own interests ahead of those of 8mn New Yorkers and fear he is now beholden to the Republican president. Many are calling on him to resign. “He’s put New York City up for sale and Trump is the highest bidder,” said Michael Weinstein, a former Department of Justice trial attorney who is now head of white-col- lar defence at law firm Cole Schotz. The saga has its roots in the events of September last year when Adams was indicted on charges of bribery, fraud, soliciting illegal foreign campaign dona- tions and conspiracy as part of ascheme involving Turkey’s government. Adams has pleaded not guilty. But the charges have hurt his approval ratings and damaged his chances of re-election. Senior Democrats pointedly failed to rally round him. His standing in the party had taken a nosedive after he openly criticised then president Joe Biden's immigration policies, complain- ing in 2023 that the influx of 100,000 asylum seekers had pushed New York- ers “past our breaking point”. But last year he acquired an unlikely ally in Trump, who on the campaign trail said Adams was being punished for his tough line on the migrant crisis. “I know what it’s like to be persecuted by the DoJ [Department of Justice] for speaking out against open borders,” Trump said in October, fuelling specula- Corruption charges. Immigration Thumbs up: New York mayor Eric Adams leaves a city court on Wednesday. He has pleaded not guilty to corruption charges Julia Demaree Nikhinson/AP tion that should he win, he might par- don Adams if he were convicted. Then, in a twist last week, acting dep- uty attorney-general Emil Bove, Trump's former personal criminal defence lawyer who is now number two at the DoJ, ordered the charges against Adams to be dropped. Bove wrote that prosecutors had “unduly restricted mayor Adams’ ability to devote full attention and resources to the illegal immigration and violent crime”, and said the case would be reconsidered after the mayoral election in November. The Bove memo sparked outrage among legal observers, who said Trump was using the DoJ to advance his politi- cal agenda. The department was signal- ling it wanted to “centralise every deci- sion in every investigation and in every prosecutorial matter throughout the country”, Weinstein said. “Each of the US attorneys’ offices is feeling as though its independence is being challenged and its discretion restricted,” he added, calling it “a bad precedent forthe country”. Rather than comply with Bove’s order, the US attorney for the southern district of New York, Danielle Sassoon, resigned and said dismissing the charges would be a “breathtaking and dangerous precedent”. Six other prose- cutors followed. Sassoon said in a letter she sent last week to attorney-general Pam Bondi, a Trump appointee, that Adams’ lawyers had proposed a “quid pro quo”: the charges against the mayor would be dis- missed “in return for his assistance in enforcing the federal immigration laws”. She said Bove’s memo also left open the possibility of reviving the charges against Adams and “implicitly threaten[s] future prosecution” if the White House is dissatisfied with his enforcement of immigration laws. It was this aspect of the alleged deal that enraged many legal observers. “In effect they’re holding a sword over the mayor's head,” said Richard Briffault, an expert in government ethics at Columbia Law School. “The way people read this was, as long as he’s co-opera- tive they won't bring the case against him, but if he isn’t, they could.” This week, Bove appeared before a US judge in lower Manhattan who will con- sider the motion to drop the charges. The acting deputy attorney-general ‘He's put New York City up for sale and Trump is the highest bidder’ Michael Weinstein, lawyer POPUP RRR OO ES CEOS S CPUS SSE Cee eee Pee eee eee Pee eee eee eee ee eee Cece eee eee eee eee ee eee Poe eee eee) Pee ee eee eee eee eee eee cee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee Pee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee Pee eee eee OSS CeCe eC CeO CeCe Cee eee eee eee Cee eee eee eee ee Pe eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee Cece Pee eee eee Cee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee eee eee Pe ee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee ee eee eee eee eee eee ee Pee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee ees POPU PPPOE OEE COPS S UCU OS OSE EE CECE OPO C OCCT CORE CPCS CPO CPP EET CP COPE E ST CPU E COTE EST Cee PCCP eee eee, PPP Cee Pee eee, Pee P ee Cee ee, Pe Pee CeCe PPP eee Pee Pee eC Pee TPP PCP eee Pee eee Pee eee eee eee eee Cee e PPP eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee Middle East Israel blames militant groups for bus bombings MEHUL SRIVASTAVA — LONDON Israeli security services have blamed Palestinian militant groups for a series of bus bombings in Tel Aviv’s southern suburbs, increasing fears about the safety of the country’s public transport services. Three buses that had been parked at separate depots were destroyed in apparently co-ordinated bombings late on Thursday, according to videos posted by Israeli media showing the explosions in Bat Yam, a majority Russian-speak- ing town on the southern fringe of Tel Aviv. Security services disarmed at least one more bomb, also on a bus near Bat Yam. It is not clear if that bus had been parked or was in service, but the transport ministry ordered all public transport to a halt so vehicles could be swept for explosive devices after the first detonated around 8pm local time. No casualties have been reported but Bat Yam’s mayor Tzvika Brot told televi- sion crews it was a “miracle” that no one had been hurt. Israeli media cited an unnamed security source as saying the bombings had been intended for yester- day morning’s rush hour but may have been mistakenly set for the evening. Defence minister Israel Katz blamed militants from the West Bank for the attacks and instructed the army to step up operations in the occupied territory. The Israeli military is working to determine how many suspects were involved in planting the devices. “I have ‘L have instructed the Israel Defense Forces to increase the intensity of activity’ Israel Katz. defence minister instructed the Israel Defense Forces to increase the intensity of activity to thwart terrorism in the Tulkarem refu- gee camp and in general in the refugee camps in Judea and Samaria,” Katz said in a statement, using the biblical name for the West Bank. Bus bombings were a recurrent fea- ture of the Palestinian-Israeli conflict for decades, especially during the sec- ond intifada, or uprising, of 2000-05, but have become less frequent in recent years. Most were blamed on suicide bombers from Hamas and other Islam- ist groups. Over the past few months the Israeli military has conducted extensive raids in refugee camps in Jenin, Tulkarem and other Palestinian towns in the northern West Bank. The operations have displaced some 40,000 people. Hundreds of West Bank Palestinians have been killed, according to local offi- cials, since October 7 2023 when conflict erupted in Gaza after 1,200 people were killed, according to Israel, during Hamas's attack on Israel. The IDF has intensified operations in the West Bank since a tentative ceasefire took hold in Gaza last month. The office of Prime Minister Ben- jamin Netanyahu said Shin Bet, Israel’s domestic spy agency, and police would “increase preventive activity against additional attacks in Israeli cities”. No group appeared to immediately accept responsibility for planting the bombs, though the so-called Tulkarem Battalion of Hamas’s military wing released a statement on its Telegram channel saying: “We will never forget to take vengeance for our martyrs as long as the occupation is on our lands.” New York mayor at heart of justice controversy described his request as a “standard exercise of prosecutorial discretion” and asserted that the indictment against the mayor had negatively affected Trump’s “national security and immi- gration objectives”. Adams also appeared in the court, met by a small group of protesters who chanted “We don’t need a Maga mayor — Adams out now!” The mayor denied under oath he had done a deal with pros- ecutors. He said he understood that the charges against him could be revived. “I have not committed a crime, and I don’t see them bringing it back,” he said. His lawyer, Alex Spiro, said a quid pro quo “never happened”. Despite Adams’ denials, the clamour for him to step down is growing, with four of his deputies resigning this week. Kathy Hochul, New York state’s Dem- ocratic governor, on Thursday said she would not fire Adams but would increase oversight of the mayor's office. “New York is facing a grave threat from Washington,” she said. “The Trump administration is already trying to use the legal jeopardy facing our mayor as leverage to squeeze and pun- ish our city.” 22 February/23 February 2025 eee e Pee Pee eee e ee Cee Pee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee CERES SEER EERE EE EERE EEE EEEE EE EEE EEE EERE HERR E EEE EEE Ter T eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee ee ee eee eee ee ee ee eee ee ee ee eee ee eee ee eee eee Natural resources Zelenskyy to sign minerals deal with US ‘In the very short term’ ALEX ROGERS — WASHINGTON CHRISTOPHER MILLER — KYIV US national security adviser Mike Waltz yesterday said that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy would sign a critical minerals deal with the US in “the very short term”, although Kyiv has said several key points still needed to be agreed. “Under Trump, this war will end and it will end soon,” Waltz told an audience at the Conservative Political Action Con- ference in Maryland. “He is the presi- dent of peace.” Donald Trump called Vladimir Putin and Zelenskyy last week in an opening bid to end the war. He then dispatched senior US officials to meet Russian offi- cials in Saudi Arabia on Tuesday but Zelenskyy was not invited. Washington has moved to strip lan- guage from an annual G7 declaration of support for Kyiv that paints the Kremlin as the aggressor. Ukraine has asked for security guarantees from the US, as well as Europe, to ensure that any peace deal is lasting and just, and will deter Russia from using an armistice to rest and re- arm, allowing it to resume its invasion. Waltz said Zelenskyy wanted to develop critical minerals with US investment and claimed the Ukrainian leader would agree to a deal with Wash- ington, although he did not provide details of the terms. Zelenskyy last week rejected a proposal presented by US Treasury secretary Scott Bessent during a visit to Kyiv, saying it was not in Ukraine’s best interest as written. Zelenskyy’s rejection of the US deal and his subsequent war of words with Trump over the past week has raised concerns about the strategic partner- ship between the two nations and future American assistance. Trump, who labelled Zelenskyy a “dictator” this week, falsely claimed that the Ukrainian leader had started the war. He raised the stakes further yesterday by saying Zelenskyy did not need to be involved in negotiations. “I don’t think he’s very important to be at meetings to be honest with you,” Trump said. “When Zelenskyy said, oh, he wasn't invited to a meeting, I mean, it wasn't a priority because he did sucha bad job in negotiating so far.” The original rare minerals deal pro- posed that the US would take ownership of about 50 per cent of the rights to Ukraine's rare earths and critical miner- als in exchange for past military assist- ance, and did not contain any offers of future assistance. Senior Ukrainian officials who viewed the proposal told the FT that Bessent demanded that Zelenskyy sign the deal in his presence. The officials said they had spent the past week drawing up a counterproposal, which they discussed with the US special envoy for Ukraine, Keith Kellogg, in Kyiv this week. Zelenskyy said in an address on Thursday evening after his first meeting with Kellogg that he had “proposed the fastest and most constructive way to achieve results”. A senior Ukrainian official said: “We've never said that we don’t want to sign [the deal]. They don’t understand that the draft text can’t violate our con- stitution and, actually, we are helping Trump to make a real deal.” Ce EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE ET EEE EERE EEE EERE EE TORE EEE EEE EE PEER EEE ET REET EERE EEE EEE EEE TERETE OEE EEE EEE EEE EEE HERE EEE EEE EET TEETER EEE EES REE EEO EEE REESE EEE TEETER EERE TERETE THREE HEH HERE OERR EEE SE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE Ee TEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EHH CHEE EEE HEHEHE Ee HEE EEE TERETE HEE EEE REET EEE EHH ETE HERE TEER HEH HHT He COTTE CREE REET CETTE EET EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EERE EEE REE EET ETRE Ee REET TERETE REE EERE ETE EEE TEE TEETER TTT eT eT eee Animated film Patriotic fervour fuels China blockbuster CHAN HO-HIM AND WENJIE DING BEIJING A new Chinese animated film has bro- ken multiple box office records thanks in part to a growing patriotic fervour as companies across the country subsi- dise tickets and organise group trips to the cinema to boost sales. Ne Zha 2, which is based loosely on a 16th-century tale of a young outcast endowed with magical, dragon-slaying powers, has raked in more than Rmb$12.4bn ($1.7bn) since its release late last month, according to Chinese ticketing platform Maoyan. The box office takings make it the world’s highest grossing animated film ever, entering the all-time global top 10. The film has also sparked an outpour- ing of nationalist pride from Chinese companies. In eastern Shandong prov- ince, snacks maker Weilong Food said it had paused operations to take about 900 of its staff to the cinema. Videos posted by the company on short video platform Douyin showed a line of buses leaving the factory and a banner reading “Global box office number one; go go go!” Li Zhiwei, Weilong Food’s head of pro- motion, said it wanted to “help Chinese films and animation go further”, adding: “It’s our turn — domestic brands sup- porting domestic animation.” This “collective effort” amassing behind Ne Zha 2 “reflects a form of par- ticipatory nationalism — where individ- uals voluntarily rally behind a cultural product”, said Xiaoning Lu at Soas Uni- versity of London, who studies Chinese cinema and culture. Videos on Douyin, the TikTok sister app, showed school groups and uni- Magical run: “Ne Zha 2’ is the highest grossing animated film of all time formed employees from food and tooth- paste manufacturers heading to cine- mas. The electric vehicle maker Zeekr offered employees cinema vouchers to “help Ne Zha’s box office exceed Rmb10bn”, according to a company social media post last week. Ne Zha 2’s success comes as Chinese film audiences have increasingly spurned Hollywood offerings in favour of domestic productions, many of them based on historical sagas or advancing nationalist themes. Last year’s breakout Chinese video game Black Myth: Wukong also drew from classic Chinese mythology. The film has provided a boost for China’s domestic box office, which fell almost a quarter last year, in part due to a lack of blockbuster titles and a slowing domestic economy. Wu, a cinema manager in Zhenjiang in China's eastern Jiangsu province who preferred to be identified by one name, said many movie-goers were boycotting Captain America to “support Ne Zha’, while theatres were responding by reducing screenings of the US block- buster. “There's a mindset of saving box office revenue for Ne Zha,” he said. 22 February/23 February 2025 * FT Weekend
