METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: TT TT ECT TTT EET TLE EEE LEE LEE LEE ELLE LEE ELLE LEE EEE LEE LEE L ELE LEE L LL EELEELLLELE LL...
ID: 121

CONTENT:
TT TT ECT TTT EET TLE EEE LEE LEE LEE ELLE LEE ELLE LEE EEE LEE LEE L ELE LEE L LL EELEELLLELE LLL ELLE EEL LEE LLL LEE LLL Electric-vehicle maker Rivian posts first gross profit in cost-cutting drive CLAIRE BUSHEY — CHICAGO Rivian reported that revenue exceeded the cost of building its electric vehicles for the first time — even as the carmaker said it would deliver fewer trucks and vans this year as demand slows and the Trump administration hits out at the EV industry. The Californian carmaker posted $170mn in gross profit in the fourth quarter, exceeding Wall Street expecta- tions of $20mn, as it lowered costs while improving revenue per vehicle deliv- ered. Chief executive RJ Scaringe said Rivian had cut $31,000 off the cost of manufacturing each vehicle. Gross profits account for revenues less the cost of goods sold but do not account for other expenses, such as taxes. Rivian reported a gross loss of $606mn in the final three months of 2023 in results released on Thursday. However, Rivian also said it would deliver fewer electric trucks and vans this year than in 2024. Last year, it delivered just under 51,600 EVs while it forecast that it would deliver between 46,000 and 51,000 vehicles this year. Shares in Rivian rose 7 per cent in US innovation around transportation requires ‘a mosaic of companies that give customers choices’ after-hours trading on Thursday before falling back to near that day’s closing price of $13.61. They dipped 2.9 per cent yesterday to $13.21 by afternoon trading in New York. The company is having to navigate slowing EV demand, the influence wielded by Tesla chief executive Elon Musk in the White House and the tumult facing the entire car industry from potential tariffs. Trump has threatened levies that would hit automotive suppliers in Can- ada and Mexico as well as raw materials such as steel and aluminium. Claire McDonough, Rivian’s chief financial officer, said changes to tax incentives, tariffs and the market for regulatory credits could all affect the company’s forecast for the year. She added that the carmaker was “looking forward to working with the new administration” to disburse a $6.6bn loan awarded by the US Depart- ment of Energy in the final days of President Joe Biden’s administration. Scaringe added that US innovation around transportation and energy requires “a mosaic of different compa- nies” that “give customers choices as they start to think about electrification”. Rivian reported a net loss of $4.7bn in 2024 compared with $5.4bn the previous year. 22 February/23 February 2025
