METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: SINGAPORE CONSERVATION SHOPHOUSE FOR SALE/ RENT Excellent for Family Office/ Asset Management/ Hi...
ID: 166

CONTENT:
SINGAPORE CONSERVATION SHOPHOUSE FOR SALE/ RENT Excellent for Family Office/ Asset Management/ Highend Boutiques. In the heart of CBD in a historic lane, 2 mins walk from MRT station. Approx. 3800 square feet built P.d ASSIGNY +33 184 7489 60 NN VAMVAUU ES ERM Ueey tH - Pte eee teen penne up, 3 levels with 4 wash rooms Painstakingly Renovated over 2 years, Brand new fittings, beautiful skylights and outdoor areas, new aircon, wiring, lighting, flooring and finishes. Double ceiling height of 8 meters at the reception area. Designed by leading architect Ernesto Bedmar. Rent for Full Shophouse S$ 35k month For Sale at S$22 Million. Overseas residents are eligible to buy commercial shophouses 2 fg jeannie@bhpholdings.com yg $ oF : a <9 Scan OR Code for more pictures Bis The ‘Secret’ London Properties You’ll Never Get To See Every year, over £1 billion of luxury properties are sold in London without ever going on the market. This ts the secret network of London’s off-market deals. If you want to find the best property your money can buy, it is vital that you see the finest off-market opportunities. In his Free guide ‘7he Insider Secrets of London § £1 Million to £100 Million Property Market,’ Jeremy McGivern, who has featured on CNBC & Bloomberg, reveals how you can access this secret world. Simply request your Free Copy by visiting www.jmelitel0.com, emailing info@ mercuryhomesearch.com or calling +442034578855 12 House&oHome Oxfordshire via Omar Khayyam Understanding William Morriss passion for Islamic art offers fresh inspiration for garden design ulips and peacocks? For gardeners they are not exactly a match made in heaven. Peacocks on lawns look lovely in photographs but in real life they shriek to one another like children in pain. The sound is most unnerving in a garden. A peacock also likes to scratch around in flower beds and when he fans out his tail to impress a peahen, he flattens plants when he lowers it. He is no more compatible with tulips. This weekend they are already starting to show above ground. When they come into bud, a courting peacock would break them. Artistically, tulips and peacocks are a happier match. They appear in Asian art, especially on patterns for tiles and carpets, where they do no damage to plants in reality. I relish them because art is sometimes shaped by gardens and gardens by art. I have just been enjoying an excellent show that makes me see both sides of the subject differently. At the elegant William Morris Museum in Walthamstow, east London, the exhibition William Morris & Art from the Islamic World runs until March 9. It is small, well co-ordinated and a tribute to its curators. Admission is free. The Victorian arts and craftsman William Morris had two superb peacocks in his dining room at Kelmscott Manor, his country retreat in Oxfordshire. They had turquoise in their tails but were not living birds. In the 1870s they had been cast in brass, probably near Isfahan, now Iran, before Morris bought them. He was very proud of them and loaned them to exhibitions in London. He also designed a textile pattern called “Peacock and Dragon” and a carpet pattern called “Peacock and Bird”. However, he did not keep living peacocks in his garden. hh =——s SS —<$—————— —— SS il ° 7 He had tulips there instead. His daughter, May Morris, recalled that “the peony and the wild tulip were two of the richest blossomings of the spring garden at the Manor”. In the 1870s Morris devised a tulip pattern for cotton textiles, a tulip and lily one fora carpet and in 1884, registered a tulip and peony pattern for a wallpaper. His original tulips and peonies are not visible in the replanted garden at Kelmscott but I have always enjoyed thinking of its influence on Morris's eye. His willow-patterned wallpaper has remained a classy option for decorators. His Snakeshead carpet pattern is one of several that show flowers of the snakeshead fritillary, Fritillaria meleagris. Willows flourish by the river Thames at Kelmscott and fritillaries still grow wild in the water meadows. Morris lived among them, but art was an intermediary between himself and what he showed of nature. As he was a famous member of the Pre- Raphaelite movement, I have looked on his patterns as tributes to the flowery settings of 15th-century Italian paintings. Botticelli’s Primavera has a flower-spangled foreground, as does Fra Angelico’s marvellous painting of the Annunciation, which hangs in the civic museum in Cortona, the Umbrian town where it was first displayed in a church. Their patterns are so apt for Morris’s designs. Many of them are rather crowded, but I have assumed they were packing in a blend of Italian art and some flowers from his Victorian garden. The Walthamstow exhibition corrects this superficial view. Again and again his patterns owe debts to Islamic art, examples of which were known, even owned by Morris. The exhibition and its beautifully produced =. —__— ae SS —————= — a Tr. = NOBILUS *® VILAMOURA
