METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: CONDOMINIUM 11860 HILLSBORO MILE \t the offeror and makes no representations wit! DOCUMENTS REQUI...
ID: 163

CONTENT:
CONDOMINIUM 11860 HILLSBORO MILE \t the offeror and makes no representations wit! DOCUMENTS REQUIRED BY SECTION 718.503 'S-12 APPLICATION AVAILABLE FROM THE the “Condominium”) is marketed l | C under license agreement: 2 House&»oHome Build 1.5mn homes? Let’s rethink what we already have Ingrid Schroder here is a fevered rush in schools of architecture to steer the direction of the proposed 1.5mn new homes promised by the new government. There is hardly a discussion or student review where this ambition isn’t dropped into the conversation. The opportunities seem limitless but, dig a little deeper and the excitement disguises quite a bit of uncertainty. How on earth will we build at this scale, and where, and who is going to steer decision-making and determine whether what we plan is any good? This is a huge and baffling number, particularly given the knowledge that, according to government-published tables, England alone had more than 700,000 “vacant dwellings” in October 2024. The character of their vacancy is hugely varied, as is the viability of these properties, either in quality or location. Around 37 per cent — some 265,061 — are empty long-term. And they aren't all in remote locations; more than 38,000 are in London boroughs; 1,700 in Manchester. In March 2024, 1.3mn households were on the social housing wait-list in England. It seems tragic that the UK can’t accommodate some of its extensive need with what it has. It is an arresting thought that we could keep building and that even if we meet the numbers, we might be left with the basics of habitation, but without homes that anyone wants or can afford. When George Orwell wrote of the Corporation houses in The Road to Wigan Pier (1937) he complained of virtually the same lacklustre character that seems to typify so much rapid development: the remoteness and the absence of community, independent pub or shopkeeper. Building new developments is hard, labour intensive, materially exhaustive and expensive. The G15 (a group of the largest London housing associations) has reported an average cost of £450,000 per affordable home. Furthermore, the building industry is hugely land and carbon hungry at virtually every stage from construction to demolition — accounting for just under 40 per cent of global carbon emissions. And while we can’t simply shoehorn households into vacant properties, we can take a hard look at the intelligent reuse of what we already have. We have the tools to do so, not just by making vacant homes warm, dry and bright but by addressing the root causes of abandonment and exploring opportunities for staged and continuing revitalisation of neglected spaces and communities. Alongside this we need to look equally hard at how we want to live. We need to be a great deal clearer about what shape our families might take through their various stages of supporting relationships, babies and dependent adults, and creating homes that meet those changing needs. While the traditional terraced house has been bashed about to suit our needs, it is only adaptable because we have been permitted to adapt it. Its long narrow spaces enhanced by numerous extensions produce lightless homes with peculiar spaces, tiny bedrooms and oddly large bathrooms. It is time to think again and to raise our expectations of the spaces we spend so much time in. The licence given to change of use through “permitted development”, which relaxes the usual case-by-case constraints of the planning process, has made a number of conversions of abandoned office spaces to residential use possible, but few have created homes of desirable quality. The freedom associated with planning reform has been welcomed by many, but in too many cases, without any criteria to follow, these new developments risk adhering to the most rudimentary safety regulations and the whims of the free market. Careful conversion, adaptation and reuse can be cumbersome and slow, but with limited available affordable land, or land that’s suitable for development and that’s where people actually want to live, we can and should try to do more and to do better. But the criteria for what is important and valuable can also feel subjective and difficult to define. It is also what we as architects are best at identifying. We have spent decades trying to define and understand how space, light, layout and location shape our experience. We keep hoping to be brought to the table with policymakers to share this knowledge, help shape strategies, and articulate and visualise a ‘Architects keep hoping to be brought to the table with policymakers to share this knowledge and visualise a viable alternative viable alternative, which is what we do best. For the majority of recent political and architectural history, most communities and governments have tried to reduce constraints — the red tape holding back progress. But cutting through the bureaucracy has also meant cutting down our expectations. Removing standard regulation has also meant lowering standards, and thereby what we feel we have the right to expect from our built environment. In a culture where there is a broader enthusiasm for make do and mend we seem to have forgotten what’s worth mending and risk producing a great deal more that isn’t. A serious look at vacancy, its patterns and promise, and its contribution to the housing crisis is an essential precursor to building our way out of it. This is a question of generational responsibility, to our families, our towns and the climate. If we can do more to encourage the reuse and cyclical adaptation of existing buildings we give individuals, businesses and communities the chance to increase both value and worth, building a property ladder into the fabric of the places we already have, alongside a forward-focused resilience at a moment of uncomfortable uncertainty. Ingrid Schroder is director of the Architectural Association School of Architecture Millennium Images, UK/Zoe Barker * FT Weekend The crafted home | Bespoke symbols, Shaker elegance and American hardwoods converge in the Hudson Valley. By Daisy Dawnay eople do the darndest things,” says Jonah Meyer, co-founder of furniture company Sawkille Co, based in the town of Rhinebeck in the Hudson Valley. He’s talking about his Lambda tables, carved from locally sourced walnut, maple, oak or syca- more, then embellished with personal- ised inlays. “They want their children’s profiles, their favourite rock band, even their sun signs,” he says. “It’s very fun.” Meyer — whose father was a wood- worker and jeweller, his mother a potter — founded the furniture company in 2003 with his wife Tara DeLisio, and came up with the idea for the patches asa way to cover “imperfections” in the wood. After years of trying to persuade clients of their beauty, he finally settled on the real- isation that “people hate knots”. Shell hummingbirds, silver-plate thunderbolts Talisman at the table (Clockwise from main) Walnut table with personal inlays in brass and mother of pearl; hammered silver Minnewaska chandelier; Song stool, Penn table, Scallop bench in ebonised walnut, Imogen credenza in bleached ash and maple, Winnisook table lamp in blackened steel Brett Terwilliger; Tom DeLooza: Tane Tashima and Raina Kattelson 22 February/23 February 2025 and brass hands — symbols that seem to havea talismanic or mythical aura — have featured in the ebonised, bleached, dyed or oiled woods of the range, from benches to beds. It has become the company’s sig- nature, along with its starkly elegant Shaker-influenced clean lines. Meyer may have been saddened by this rejection of the wood’s natural for- mations and markings. Yet in his response, he discovered a way to appeal to the current call for the bespoke. “When we first started I thought they wouldn't sell,” he says. “Now, nearly all the tables we sell have half a dozen [inlays]. It’s very much taken off.” Two hours’ drive upstate from New York City, the Hudson Valley is known for its farm-to-table restaurants and cre- atives seeking a more balanced life. The distance from the city suits Meyer as ini- tially, 90 per cent of Sawkille Co's busi- ness came through interior design- ers. Now, some 20 years later, clients also come through word of mouth. Sawkille Co employs 15 people at its workshop and showroom, and Meyer sees every commission as a collaboration. The collection extends to lighting, mirrors and chests — and the company ships all over the world. The most ship- pable Sawkille Co design remains its three-legged stool — a piece that “defines our whole ethos”, Meyer says. That ethos is about three things: meaningful work, good craftsmanship and simplicity. He cites Japanese-American wood- working innovator George Nakashima as a hero; his own work, he believes, is about “holding that torch”. He hopes those who invest in one of his crafted pieces will be able to pass on to future generations a modern heirloom with a stamp of distinction. Stools from $1,250, lead time 8-10 weeks; Lambda tables from $21,400, 12-14 weeks; brass patches $800; sawkille.com SOE EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE EERE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE Ee EEE EEE EEE Ee EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EE EEE EEE EEE EET ERT Re eee eee ee EEE EERE EEE EEE EE EERE EERE EERE EERE EERE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EERE EEE EE EEE EEE EERE EE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EERE EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE EERE EEE EERE EERE EEE ETE EEE EEE EERE EERE REE ERO CE EEE OEE EERE EEE EE EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE EE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EH OEE EEE EERE EEE EE EEE EE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE REE EE EEE EEE EEE EE ERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EE EEE EERE EEE EE EEE EEE E CHEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE RHEE EEE EEE Rebirth on the Nile Continued from page 1 the paintings on the walls are for sale) and Le Grillon (a former beer garden and famous boite for 1950s Egyptian cin- ema stars), and speculate about the fate of Groppi, the 100-year-old café-patis- serie on Talaat Harb Square. But “what we do is not about nostal- gia; it’s not folkloric,” says Shafei, who was born and raised in Dokki, across the Nile, and for whom Downtown has exerted a near-mythical pull since he attended an arts festival there in 2000. “We want Downtown to be a place where all the city’s socio-economic seg- ments can congregate, where artists can afford to live and work.” There have been obstacles along the route. For a few years in the wake of the 2011 revolution, Downtown was largely abandoned by police, allowing street sellers to proliferate and create impass- able traffic situations. Then came Covid. Throughout, acquisitions often involved multiple tenants on minuscule commercial leases, which required dip- lomatically negotiating out of one by one, an exercise that sometimes took years. You might see a grand, fabulous building full of grand apartments, and only two or three of them were actually lived in,” says Abdel Barr. “I think we [Cairenes] occasionally wondered, ‘How will it happen?” she continues. “It has not been at all easy for them, juggling the bureaucracy and the many layers of ownership . . . But some- how just in the last, let’s say, three years, we've seen some things really coming to fruition. And it’s a much broader vision than [many people] had realised.” Part of the broader vision is mean- ingful contributions to Cairo’s cultural scene, which has also flourished in the past few years. Art Cairo celebrated its sixth edition two weeks ago, drawing collectors from across Egypt and overseas. Other events, from Cairo Design Week to D-CAF (the Downtown Contemporary Arts Festi- val, now in its 12th year) and Art D’Egypte, all host exhibitions, panels and parties Downtown. “Cairo in general is growing at a rate that’s unbelievable,” says Mai Eldib. The former senior director for the Middle East at Sotheby’s, now an independent art adviser, Eldib moved home to Egypt from London last summer. She lives on Zamalek, but is heartened to see Downtown on the upswing. “I would love a really renewed, vibrant Down- town; I'd love to be able to sit at a café on the street here. “Until then I'll take a rooftop,” she says with agrin. We're at Mazeej Balad, a bou- tique hotel which opened last month on the top two floors of the Al Ismaelia- owned, 1896 La Viennoise building, two blocks from Tahrir Square. It has five art- filled suites and a rooftop restaurant, which is where we're drinking tea under scalloped umbrellas. A few feet away isa marble-lined bar with a retracting roof; lanterns dot the colourful tiled pave- ment between potted palms. Across the street, laundry hangs from a balcony; rooftops bristle with satellite dishes. Eldib reckons Downtown’s potential lies with those “who want a real city life. Someone who has lived abroad for a while — an artist, a creative. It’s cheap. It’s highly authentic,” she says. “So I don’t see why you wouldn't come.” Mazeej Balad is managed by GnK Group, an Egyptian events company. “We really wanted to be part of bringing back Downtown,” says co-founder Kar- eem Nabil, who himself recently closed on a flat not far from the hotel. “This is one of the only places in Cairo with this density of great architecture. It’s really the only one besides Zamalek where you can walk almost anywhere you want to go. And you can’t recreate this sense of history in New Cairo or 6th of October.” Inevitably, some locals question whether “revival” is assuming the con- tours of gentrification; whether, how- ever lofty the rhetoric — Al Ismaelia’s in particular — the reality risks pricing out or erasing some of what imbues the neighbourhood with its particular appeal. “This is one of the most socially diverse parts of the entire city,” says Tarek Shamma, an architect who prac- tises here and in Paris. He’s in the process of renovating a penthouse flat at 9 Merit Basha, overlooking the Egyptian Museum — the same building his office is in. I ask if he’s working on any other projects locally for clients. “No,” says the 42-year old, laughing. “My friends find my choice exotic, and are going to fami- ly-friendly compounds out in 6th Octo- ber or the [New Cairo] settlements.” But not long ago he was contacted by Coterie, an Alexandria-based developer that has recently entered the Downtown Cairo market with two “adaptive-use” heritage properties. The more intrigu- ing is the 14-storey Ouzounian building, which will have eight floors of studio apartments, all with access to concierge, fitness and wellness facilities, as well as retail outlets and flexible workspaces in the building’s lower four floors. ‘Downtowns got the same visceral excitement about it as Marrakech decades ago, but on steroids “Downtown is one of the only places where there can still be sensitive pric- ing, because rents are still so accessible,” Shamma notes. The E£100 — about £1.60 — I spend on a cappuccino at the Cinema Radio is, he points out, a huge amount in a city where the average sal- ary is around £300 a month. Another local designer, commenting on the “Soho House-circa-2010” feel of Mazeej Balad, suggests that hewing to contemporary design trends and hyper- patination imposes an aesthetic version of that same problem on the built envi- ronment. Shamma, while he praises Al Ismaelia’s and Coterie’s initiatives, doesn’t disagree: “Above street level, most of these facades are beautifully rus- ticated; I’m not sure they need that hard- core layer of render, that super-new newness. I’m not sure they need much more than soap and water, actually.” Full residency is not required to buy a home in Egypt, but there are limits on the number of properties a foreign owner can acquire. Renovation costs are lower than in Europe (labour across Egypt is cheap, and its artisanal restorers are, in the main, highly skilled). Finding a fixer- upper isn’t easy for the punter. But there are ways to dip a toe into the living expe- rience. Al Ismaelia’s Lemon Spaces, serv- iced rental apartments in a grand block on Adly Street, offer high ceilings, lots of space and haute-boilerplate design schemes (they also offer doormen and strong WiFi, a bedevilled issue across Cairo). Abdel Barr notes a recent prolif- eration of Downtown flats on Airbnb. The Immobilia Apartments are a more rarefied proposition — four refur- bished flats in the building of the same name, constructed in 1939 and often cited as Cairo’s first luxury high-rise; film star Omar Sharif was among its many celebrated tenants. Ranging from one to three bedrooms, they are full of Egyptian and European antiques sourced from dealers in Cairo and Alex- andria, with beautiful cook’s kitchens and landscaped terraces. There are staff to service them, and drivers available. Elsewhere in the building, which com- mands half a city block, a large space is currently being remade as Immobilia Club, where residents can relax, enter- tain guests and work. Three additional suites, smaller than the apartments but still self-catering, will be located off its entrance. At present, the rates are per night with full service, starting at $400; but longer stays can be negotiated. Owned by Florian Amereller, a Cairo- and Florence-based lawyer who also owns the Hotel Al Moudira in Luxor, the Immobilia proposition casts things reso- lutely in the late-day golden light of nos- talgia. That’s upstairs in the flats, any- way; down in the building’s cavernous, Blade Runner-esque entrance, where the fluorescent lights occasionally flicker and a little gang of harmless but very vocal stray cats congregates, it’s unmis- takably the Downtown of 2025. But it’s precisely this intersection of grit and momentum that feels, to some, like a Moment. Alice Daunt, founder of London-based Daunt Travel, has been staying in an Immobilia flat regularly since 2023, and is now considering buy- ing in the building: “The pace, the energy and the creativity of Downtown remind me of that moment decades ago when Marrakech sat on the cusp of change. It’s got the same visceral excite- ment about it, but on steroids.” Maria Shollenbarger is travel editor of HTSI 22 February/23 February 2025 Floristry | Cabbages, peppers, grapes, tomato, radicchio and other fridge- drawer finds are adding bite to floral arrangements. By Alice Vincent s fruit goes, grapes have long been used decora- tively: a prop in painted depictions of Dionysus’s revelry, or something to jazz up acheese board. But they are also, increasingly, the foundation of a dra- matic floral centrepiece. Recently, they splurged, lava-like, beneath a crown of radicchio tardivo and dramatic lilies at a wedding at Lon- don’s Institute of Contemporary Arts, courtesy of florist Kasia Borowiecka. Last May, Berlin-based florists Vivko Studio speared grapes on curving wires to nestle among cyclamen, kiwis and clematis. In December, at a wedding at One at Palm Jumeirah residence in Dubai, bunches of grapes nuzzled pillar candles beneath roses and hydrangeas, and spilled over the floor. Edible floristry has form. Dutch Mas- ters loved spiralling lemon peel or a plate of shining redcurrants. From the 1920s, the British florist Constance Spry shocked the floristry set with arrangements created from the ruffled leaves of kale. Her work has been a gaat So .» ss» FO a. _ ( f ai . Ss «A . 4 he. —— 4 i “ " ' af ’ 7 — 5 ! . L Se | JN | / ' ‘ . i fY Al AB =o aa || a 7 = _ — a _ A oh [Tm A oe. 5) ) iy at is >. Ron —_— FY. = — ——_ — — - = = f . \ a! J , , ay , . \, \ a / \ t »! j a ee | ‘It's about looking at edibles as something that can be decorative in an unexpected way, about going beyond FT Weekend ns Caulitiowers design touchstone ever since — but is finding new fans. For Australian floral artist Hattie Mol- loy, fruit, vegetables and flowers are equal partners. “I like changing the con- text of things; flowers are beautiful, but I enjoy playing with perception.” Tomatoes have long been a staple in Molloy’s arrangements, connected in caterpillar-esque sculptures; pump- kins often replace or accompany vases. “T used to use fruit and vegetables with flowers, and it’s now progressed to no flowers,” she laughs. Last Christmas, Molloy made a Christmas tree out of > Hi. TTT Mii) Hi] cubes of cherry tomatoes. In her wake, radicchio, leafy veg and brassica are popping up all over the place. Clouds of cauliflowers prop up single arching dahlias, or are dotted with psychedelic primroses by Berlin event planners Wishbone. Last year they deployed 380 heads of Romanesco, 150 heads of cabbage and 30 daikon rad- ishes in the city’s Neue Nationalgalerie for tablescaping. It’s not about using vegetables to whet the appetite so much as to create a fan- tasy, says Hazel Gardiner, botanical art- ist and broadcaster. (From left) A display fora wedding, by Kasia Borowiecka; figs and grapes woven into an an arrangement by Berlin-based florists Vivko Studio; pointed cabbage, Romanesco and muscari tablescape by Wishbone for Berlin’s Neue Nationalgalerie Nan Yi & Kasia Borowiecka of Studio Nakast @vivkastudio Savannah van der Niet 3 House&oHome “It’s no longer about just putting a pumpkin on a table, it’s about looking at edibles as something that can be dec- orative in an unexpected way, even if you think it’s ugly. That could mean bringing in something that isn’t Brit- ish-grown, or is tropical, or looking at the stalks or the seed pods. It’s about going beyond.” At the RHS Chelsea Flower Show last year, Gardiner scored a gold medal for her display for heirloom seeds company She Grows Veg, which saw beefsteak tomatoes and watermelons arranged around antique picture frames. “It was a question of ‘how do I show the beauty?’ .. . How can we make it not just look like a vegetable shop?” Gardiner has noticed veg being used more, from conical pyramids of oranges and apples to pared-back din- ner tables. She cites a table display by Kirthanaa Naidu, who simply tied name tags to pears. “It was so simple but so beautiful.” “You have to be meticulous and detail orientated to make these things work, to change that context,” says Molloy, “because otherwise it just looks like a radicchio stuck next toa flower arrangement.” 4 House&»sHome Tinted truths Interiors | Personal histories and narratives are colouring a scintillating revival of stained glass, writes Aimee Farrell e are all trying to view reality through a filter,” says Parisian interior designer Pierre Marie. “And stained glass has a kind of magic that enables you to see the outside world through this beauti- ful, dreamlike lens.” Its real power? “In telling stories. If it is too abstract or conceptual, then what stories are we leaving behind?” Marie is one of anew cohort of design- ers and decorators playing with the resplendent, if restrictive, charms of stained glass. “Its limitations are its strength,” said Edward Burne-Jones, the Pre-Raphaelite pioneer whose richly decorative windows formed the bed- rock of a major Arts and Crafts revival of the art in the 19th century. Stained glass * FT Weekend 22 February/23 February 2025 despite being made in Chartres by Atel- iers Loire. “As a form of privacy in the home, they’re far better than a pair of fluffy curtains,” says Graf, who is cur- rently working on colourful skylight and window designs for a turn-of-the- century Monte Carlo home. “It’s such a democratic form of deco- rative art,” says Juliette MacDonald, professor of craft history and theory at the University of Edinburgh, and co-au- thor of forthcoming book Illuminating Stained Glass. “Anyone can walk into a church and experience that moving had spent centuries in the design dol- (Clockwise from Patrick Williams, of Bath-basedinte- | moment when the sun’s rays fill the drums when Burne-Jones and others, main) rior design studio Berdoulat, tookthat internal space with colour and drama.” working with William Morris, beamed ‘L’Amateur de ES as sentiment to heart when he commis- _There’s a very particular wonder con- its dazzlingly colourful rays beyond _ Parfums’ folding Pa DF OD AS ND Oe. OR GB sioned artisan Jamie Clark to make a jured by more medieval creations — churches and into Victorian homes. screen by Pierre - GOO 368 - stained glass panel to mark the 70th — glass was occasionally blended with Marie’s compelling glass designs — Marie; a Marie 5 COS S ODS) 1 birthday of his latefather.Amementoof powdered gold, rubies, sapphires or created in collaboration with stained- design in his a 0 82639686 his favourite things, it features 70 roses, _lapis, in contrast to the more prosaic nee : 0 On ® 0. 0-4 ll f . glass specialist Ateliers Duchemin — _— Paris flat, both | OX KEK asparagus spears and almond blossom. _ metal oxides of today. springboard from this history. They collaborations HO@OGOS 12 Williams has long been fascinated by Although historic stained glass win- include an Art Nouveauembodimentin — with Ateliers 4 cf: ~OG0666 stained glass, employingitinresidential dow making is on the red list of endan- his newly refurbished headquartersand Duchemin; § | @C@GS: S@@ projects includingasaroomdividerina geredcrafts (as of 2023, The British Soci- a complex 16-panel piece forthe private Empedocles- 1) PX ‘oar X-) i shared children’s bedroom, complete ety of Master Glass Painters has 61 salon of Hermés’s recently opened inspired door by a ©, o KXN 4 with little roundels depicting the occu- accredited members) MacDonald has Vienna store. But they alsotake stained Amata Benedict; | RRO pants in Pre-Raphaelite-style portraits, | observed a renewed interest in recent glass design into new narrative terrain. rose and 8 $39,296 « Ki) and pocket doors mirroring the swans years. “People are recognising that this A diptych in Marie’s own Nouvelle —_ asparagus Sf) ED GS 9) & and reeds of a client’s watery living _ timeless craft is not opposed to contem- Athenes home preserves his Algerian commemorative Ba TOU ANDPaLOSSOM LGW | | 3 room vista of Hampstead ponds. porary design — it fits well into homes,” partner’s crimson-tinged memory ofa __ panel by Jamie , Eee aS “As well as creating beautiful shards _ shesays. Saharan desert sandstorm. Vividlycrys- Clark for Patrick * ; sian of coloured light, coming home at night, But would-be practitioners beware: it talline folding screens offerinstantgrat- Williams at glass has a huge effect on the qualityof whenit’s backlit, itformsawarm,wel- took three years of evening classes for ification: no installation required. Berdoulat light; yellow and green glass lessso,” says coming glow,” he says. Benedict Hughes, one half of London Stained glass as both a visual reminder of the history of a home and a reflection of the stories of its inhabitant is a dichot- omy Texas-raised, London-based inte- rior designer Brandon Schubert has drawn on to scintillating effect. He advises taking cues from the architec- ture of the setting, weaving in personal narratives and considering the impact on the existing interior. “Red and blue Ambroise Teze asper Fry Manoel Akure ‘Your colours depend on the energy level you want. It's a work of art you will see every day; it represents you’ Schubert, who works with Herefordshire conservationist and artist Jim Budd. Recent striking pieces include a pri- vacy screen in a client’s bathroom and decorative glass reinstated in the hall- way of a late Victorian London home. “The colours you choose depend entirely on the energy level you're trying to create. It’s a work of art you will see every day; itrepresents you.” Stained glass’s sensual, rich appeal is similarly celebrated by the architec- tural interior designer Francois-Joseph Graf, who drew on the Morris era when installing windows for London hotel At Sloane. The windows are pared back in their execution and informed by the vernacular of their surroundings. To Graf they are a testament to a quintes- sentially English, quiet elegance — design duo Amata Benedict, to create his own painterly window quartet. An ode to Greek philosopher Empedocles and his theory that the world is com- posed of four elements — fire, air, earth, and water — the workshop window commands more comments from visi- tors than anything else. “It brings this ecclesiastical air into the most mundane space, he says. “It gives life.” i I | ' OMBRIA | ALGARVE + PORTUGAL ; _ ee — ny : THE LEADING INTERNATIONAL PRESE ART FAIR FOR CONTEMPORARY Seidel CRAFT AND DESIGN * Discover the unparalleled elegance of Ombria Algarve, where authenticity meets modern luxury. a Own an exclusive home in a premium village, where the prestigious 5-star Viceroy at Ombria Hotel sets = a @ ARTs COUNCIL the stage for world-class hospitality and exceptional dining experiences. Nestled amidst the rolling hills of 28 FEBRUARY—02 MARCH 2025 i ix PREVIEWS 26-27 FEBRUARY SOMERSET HOUSE, LONDON, UK the Algarve, with breathtaking panoramic views of our award-winning 18-hole golf course, we invite you to embrace an exceptional lifestyle in perfect harmony with nature. Discover our selection of properties, from bespoke villas to fully furnished townhouses and apartments designed by renowned architects and set amongst beautiful natural surroundings. Carol Prusa, Limen, silverpoint, graphite aad acrylic on acrylic hemisphere with fibre optics and programmed light emitter presented at Collect 2025 by BlueriderART. Jake CurtiS(photographer). “Tony -., S mM =COLLECTFAIR.ORG.UK @COLLECTARTFAIR #COLLECT2025 pt ees se ed fejarh(s] TT. +351 289 413 901 - sales@ombria.com - ombria.com ORM i}
