METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: FT Weekend USA $4.00 HSI Europe cannot rely on Trump, warns Merz @ Stark warning on eve of German...
ID: 101

CONTENT:
FT Weekend USA $4.00 HSI Europe cannot rely on Trump, warns Merz @ Stark warning on eve of German poll @ Doubt over US commitment to Nato ANNE-SYLVAINE CHASSANY AND LAURA PITEL — BERLIN Germany’s probable next chancellor has warned that Europe can no longer rely on the US to defend it unconditionally, on the eve of an election in which the country’s pro-Russian, far-right party is set to score the best result in its history. Friedrich Merz, leader of the centre- right Christian Democratic Union, which polls say will top tomorrow’s vote, has suggested that Berlin instead seek deeper security assurances from the UK and France, western Europe’s two nuclear weapon states. He made the comments as he expressed doubt that the US under Don- ald Trump would fully accept its Nato treaty obligations, the cornerstone of the transatlantic alliance. Asked if he would “bet everything” that the US president would abide by Nato’s Article 5 mutual defence commit- ment, Merz said: “We must be prepared for the fact that Donald Trump will no longer fully accept the promise of assist- ance under the Natotreaty.” Calling on Europeans to “make every effort to at least be able to defend the . . . continent on their own”, he pro- posed the discussions with London and Paris “about whether nuclear sharing, or at least nuclear security from the UK and France, could also apply tous”. The candid remarks underscore the deep concern in European capitals about Washington’s faltering commit- ment to the continent’s security in a week when the US moved to heal ties with Russia and blamed Ukraine for the Kremlin’s 2022 invasion. Germany's interior ministry warned ofa Russian disinformation operation to influence the election, with fake videos on social media. Opinion polls suggest the far-right Alternative for Germany party is poised to secure a fifth of the vote, double its score in the last contest. Green candidate Robert Habeck said the election was the last chance to hold off the far right: “If we don’t solve the problems in the next four years, right- wing populism will be unstoppable.” A Forsa poll put the CDU on 29 per cent, AfD on 21 per cent and Chancellor Olaf Scholz’s SPD on 15 per cent — head- ing for its worst defeat since 1887. Merz’s task of forming a government would be made more difficult by a strong performance by the AfD, which he has vowed not to partner with. Scholz attacks page 5 ag a i Into the light American ‘refugees’ take a shine to fashionable Spanish capital Writer Selena Templeton in Madrid, one of a growing band of “Trump regime refugees” to seek anew life in the city. The in-vogue Spanish capital, where a decent glass of wine can cost €3, offers sunshine, art and fine food at a fraction of the cost of London or Paris. And as anti-tourist sentiment rises in Barcelona, long the big-draw city in Spain, residency applica- tions are piling up, especially for “digital nomad” visas. “Se REAL JUDI DENCH
