METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: PHOTO LONDON 10' EDITION SOAS-Alphawood Postgraduate Diploma in Asian Art Object-based study of t...
ID: 156

CONTENT:
PHOTO LONDON 10' EDITION SOAS-Alphawood Postgraduate Diploma in Asian Art Object-based study of the arts of India, China, Japan & Korea, southeast Asia, and the Buddhist and Islamic worlds. Join us for unique access to the British Museum and Victoria and Albert Museum reserve collections. Available in London and online Contact Us: asianart@soas.ac.uk Find Out More: www.AsianArtDiploma.co.uk are ¥ tsgy, *OReeteaee he Se : ’ wee TP "heteneeseenes 15-18 2025 | House PREVIEW DAY 14 MAY Media Partner Official Partner FT Weekend Presenting Partner Produced by Candlestar Museum Va University of London BELMOND & Flowers & Cars. Jacob Lillis, Palm* Studios 18 Back on the tracks Their heyday was 100 years ago but hobos are still riding Americas freight trains. Imogen West-Knights reports. Photography by Dorothea Lange arrived at the Black Butte Center for Railroad Culture in Weed, Cali- fornia, the wrong way. As I drove up the dirt road where Google Maps told me to go, I found my car impeded by a bright yellow gate and a sign that read “Private Road: Union Pacific & BBCRC Only!” I texted a man called Bruce Shoemaker, who said he’d come down to meet me. I looked up at Mount Shasta and watched a roadrun- ner kick dust up the path. Bruce arrived some 10 minutes later, a gruff man in his fifties with a tattoo of a train signal all the way up his right calf, and opened the gate. He offered an apology. “It’s to keep the riffraffin,” he said, smiling. To arrive at the BBCRC the way its core visitors do, I should have come by rail. Specifically, I should have hung around by the side of some train tracks out of sight of any guards and waited for a freight train to slow down, run up alongside it and hitched a ride in any boxcar that had enough room for me to squeeze into. I should have done it, in other words, the hobo way. For as long as there have been trains in America, there have been so-called hobos, transient people, jumping on to them to get around. Etymologically, hobo might come from “homeward- bound boys”, American civil war sol- diers trying to get home or to find odd jobs on which to build a new life after the fighting ceased. By the turn of the 20th century, there were about a mil- lion hobos on America’s rails. That number went up to around 1.5mn inthe Great Depression, when there was less work and people had to travel further to find it. After the Great Depression, though, America largely forgot about the hobos, or transmuted them into idealised fig- ures in popular culture. Output such as the Disney film Lady and the Tramp (1955) and the Roger Miller song “King of the Road” (1965) capitalised on a nostalgia for a simpler time, when a man could swing a bindle (the hobo term for a bundle tied to a stick) over his shoulder and set out to find freedom and adventure. This nostalgia was premature. For more than a century, people have declared the hobo a dying breed (as early as 1907, the labour activist Len De Caux reported that “there are no tramps today”). But although increased security around railroads, cheaper cars and gas, and government interventions such as the GI bill meant that, after the second world war, there were fewer unhoused people riding the rails, hobos have never quite gone away. At best guess — and the best guess is pretty rough — about 20,000 people still ride America’s freight trains, either by choice or necessity, or a combination of the two. And the BBCRC is one of very few places that exist to serve and pre- serve their culture. I followed Bruce, who is a member of the board that oversees the site, down the private road to a collection of vin- tage boxcars and the odd cabin and workshop building, which sits right up next to the Union Pacific mainline. As I parked, a yellow freight train embla- zoned with American flags trundled by, blasting its horns as it went. “People ask me what it’s like. And it’s not really like anywhere,’ Bruce said. I know what he means. The BBCRC is something like a community centre, a scrapyard, a squat, a museum, a gig venue, a summer camp and a refuge rolled into one. It functions as a place for train riders who want somewhere to lay their heads for the night, or to hang out with other people in their community. There have long been periodic gather- ings of hobo communities, the most famous being the annual Hobo Conven- tion in Britt, Iowa, though opinion among hobos varies on how authentic this event is, given that it is run by the Chamber of Commerce and serves more as a tourist trap than a genuine focal point of hobo life. But BBCRC is here all year round. There’s a blackboard of scheduled trains, northbound and southbound, where destinations, times (some as specific as 5.50am, others just “next week”) and any useful remarks for people hoping for a ride are written up, such as that the train to Portland Lake Yard is often split into two trains. There’s an outdoor kitchen under a canopy, log benches and old sofas around a fire pit. A notice board next to the fridge gives guidance on helping out with food and washing up, and asks that if people are staying more than a few days, they clear it with the handful of permanent resi- dents and chip in for basics and upkeep in a tin donation box. “We like to say we havea mission, but we're nota mission,’ Bruce told me. Anybody can hang out here, but management have no qualms about asking people who are abusive or otherwise disruptive to leave. Veehs5 LONG READS | INTERVIEWS | IDEAS Main image: railroad yard, Sacramento, California, November 1936 Above right: detail of old railroad station, small farming town, population 108, Irrigon, Oregon, October 1939 Top right, facing page: looking east down the railroad track, near Calipatria, California. Single men, hobos with ‘bindles’, waiting for the freight train, February 1939 Below: single itinerant men on way to railroad yard, near Toppenish, Yakima Valley, Washington, 1939 Farm Securnty Adminstration/Office of War nformation/Library of Congress vw *e5 - 5a ip ay, SRA Sos fact isa S = 3 Cres) ENTE 64 ji < Bie Cy ee —_* ME AL es Ry /, yt 5 “ON DeAU MED pod Une S FT Weekend Magazine Lifeg&oArts Today, the BBCRC was mostly empty. Apart from Bruce, I met a young woman I'll call Allie, who asked not to be identified and who’s been coming here for the past decade, as well as Mar- tin, a middle-aged man who hailed from, of all places, Battersea, south London. He moved to San Francisco during the Thatcher years, and now lives up the road in Weed. He comes here to hang out. “I like to think of myself as countercultural,” he said. “It goes between being really rowdy to being really chill, it just depends who's here,” Allie said. Some of the busier times of the year are the so-called work parties, where hobos come from all over to pitch in with maintenance work on the site and play music, drink beer and hang out. One of the old boxcars, where people put on gigs, housed a painting of a train against a sunset, some guitars and amps kicking around, art equipment and a wall covered in photographs of about 50 people. A sign reads “In memory of our sisters & brothers who caught the West- bound”, a hobo euphemism probably derived from the fact that you can’t go much further west than here. Naturally, hobo culture has changed significantly over the past century. There are still older “tramps” riding trains, but the days of bindles on sticks have long gone. As Owen Clayton, a Brit- ish academic studying hobo traditions, told me, “Towards the end of the 20th century, you get more, and I don’t want this to sound dismissive, but more, like, lifestyle transiency.” In the 1990s, people with good jobs and stable homes would sometimes take to the rails for a week or so a year as a way to see the country or cosplay being poor for a while. These sorts of people came into conflict with another growing arm of hobo culture, the rail- riding punks. The word hobo fell out of fashion with this new generation, replaced by terms like “gutterpunks” and “dirtykids”. Now, there’s a mix of older tramps and younger punk figures out on the rails. Both come to BBCRC, but it’s mainly the latter, as the older generation ages out of life on the rails. The crowd is also signifi- cantly left-leaning. “That’s because they’re a lot of mar- ginalised people that have been maybe left behind by the regular American ‘Instead of somebody seeming like some threat in the darkness, they start to see some humanity programme or have chosen to opt out of it,” Bruce said. They also get a lot of trans and queer people coming, who have found railroad riders to be a more accepting community. Leftism on the rails has its origins in the 1990s with the punk crowd. “It was like a political movement,” Bruce said. “People were anarchists in a very defined way. They were going to these active resistance conferences in Toronto and Chicago. A lot were radical environ- mentalists in Earth First, and groups like that ... Part of the ideology was, freight trains are a free way to get around the country where we don’t have to get regular jobs, we can keep being activists, and we're kind of screwing over corporate America because we're getting free rides.” The BBCRC is involved in activism work to support the migrant trainriders threatened with 22 February/23 February 2025 deportation when they are caught by the railroad companies. Hobos are often thought of as lone figures, but they have also always been organised, if loosely. And they are not always strictly home- less. Of the people who come to the BBCRC, only a few spend 365 days a year riding around on trains, Bruce said. But apart from its social function, the other reason for the BBCRC’s existence is what makes it even more unusual: to preserve hoboing culture and history. There’s a rust-red Central Vermont flanger car that used to be the home ofa musical artist called Utah Phillips and is now a miniature museum to him. There is also a library boxcar that houses a col- lection of video documentaries about the railroads, posters for historic hobo gatherings, art books of freight train graffiti, histories of labour movements, collections of hobo songs and poetry, accounts of hoboing both historic and contemporary, shelves of scrappy zines with titles like Railroad Semantics, and back editions of newsletters such as the Hobo Times: America’s Journal of Wan- derlust, published by the National Hobo Association. The BBCRC isn’t new. For many years, there wasa hobo “jungle” (a place where hobos gather to wait for trains) just over the other side of the tracks from where the BBCRC is now. It was a good spot because there was a water tower where steam trains would stop to take on water, which made it an ideal location for hobos to “catch on”, their term for jumping on a train. Hobos who fre- quented that jungle in the early 2000s noticed that the BBCRC site, then owned by a local towing company, was falling into disrepair. In 2006, when the land came up for sale, they chipped in and bought the plot. Hobo culture intersects, obviously, with homelessness, an area of life in America that people don't like to think about too closely, or not with nuance. Here on the west coast, America’s crisis of homelessness is more visible than perhaps anywhere else in the country. You get the sense, walking around the cities, that there is a sharp divide between the people with homes and the people without, a tacit agreement that one group wants nothing to do with the other, a commitment to ignoring. Homelessness is a much newer idea in the public consciousness than that of the hobo. It wasn’t until the early 1980s that the real boom began in people in the US living on the street, due to wel- fare cuts, deindustrialisation and the crack-cocaine epidemic. The past few decades’ demonisation of hobos by the media has been part of a generalised demonisation of homeless people. But the internet has made hobo life visible to more people outside the CREE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE ERE EEE EEE ETE TE EERE EEE ETRE EE EERE EEE EEE EEE TERETE ETE EERE EERE REE EEE EEE EET EERE EEE EERE EET EEE EEE ETE EERE ETRE EEE EEE EERE ETRE EEE EEE EEE Ee RTE TERT TEER ERT RTE TET Oe eee CEE EERE REE EEE EERE EEE EERE EEE EEE EERE EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE EERE EEE EEE REE EERE REE EEE EEE ERR EERE EE ERE EEE EERE EEE EERE EERE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EE EEE ER EEE EEE EE ERE EE EEE ERE EERE EE EEE EERE EERE EEE EEE EERE ERE ERE EEE EEE REE EERE EERE EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EE EERE EEE EEE ERE EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EE EERE EERE EEE EERE EERE EEE EERE EERE EERE ERE REE REE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE REE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EERE EERE EERE EERE EEE EE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EERE EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EERE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EE EEE EE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE HERES The myth of "The Monk He was the patriarch of a notorious Irish crime family. How did he come to be standing for election? Jude Webber on the strange reinvention of Gerry Hutch ll weekend there was a buzz at the general election count centre in Dublin. Could he really win a seat? Would he actually turn up? Gerry Hutch finally arrived on a mild December afternoon, trailed by a cam- era and a large boom microphone. Turned out in a dark blazer and jeans, the grey-haired 61-year-old walked with the slightly self-conscious gait of one who knows he is being watched. Hutch had last faced such a media gathering outside Dublin’s Special Criminal Court in April 2023. Then, the man nicknamed “The Monk” took a vow of silence, remaining stony-faced despite having just been acquitted of one of Ireland’s most sensational gang- related murders. This time, though, he seemed happy to bask in the limelight. His good mood didn’t last. Needled by insistent ques- tioning about why he came to have three AK-47s used in the 2016 shooting at a boxing weigh-in — the hit over which he had been acquitted — Hutch flipped. “You're like a dying wasp,” he spat back at the crime correspondent asking the awkward questions. “Go away from me.” Then pandemonium erupted. Secu- rity officials in high-visibility jackets struggled to contain the scrum of reporters who pursued Hutch into the centre. There, for what felt like an eternity, he simply stood, ignoring questions, his blue eyes trained on the scene around him in what appeared to be a bizarre battle of wills. Gone was the smiling candidate. He was The Monk again. And, as in many police interrogations down the years, he sim- ply said nothing. No one had expected the patriarch of one of Ireland’s most notorious crime families to stand for election. For one thing, Hutch had been arrested in Octo- ber 2024 in Spain in connection with alleged money laundering, which he denies. He had to be released on bail just to come to Ireland, which, some thought, may have been why he was running for election in the first place. Even locals thought he had little chance of winning one of the four seats available in Dublin Central, a high-profile constit- uency contested by opponents includ- ing Ireland’s now finance minister Pas- chal Donohoe and Mary Lou McDonald, the leader of Sinn Féin. -~ 22 February/23 February 2025 * FT Weekend 19 Magazine
