METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE SEETHER EEE EEE EE EEE EE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EE EEE EE...
ID: 159

CONTENT:
EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE SEETHER EEE EEE EE EEE EE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EE EEE EE EE EEE EE EEE CEE EEE EEE EERE EE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EE EEEE EERE EE EE EEE EEE EEE EE EE CEE EEE EE EERE EEE EERE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEEE EEE EEE EE MERE EE EEE EEE EEE DEE EEE EEE EEEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE ES EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE SHEER EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EE TEER EEE EEE EEE EEE REET EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EH EEE EH EERE EEE EEE EE ES EEE EE EEE EE EEE EEE EEEE EEE EEE EE EHEEE EEE HEE SESE EEHEEEEES ree ee ee COTE EEE ERE EERE EEE ERR ERR EEE EEE EEE EERE Ee EERE Ee EERE TREE ERE EE ERE EERE EEE REE EERE EERE REET EEE EE RTT RT Te Te RE ET TT RTT Re RTE RRR Oe eee ee The myth of the Monk Continued from page 19 Dublin. Within minutes, thieves grabbed IRL£2.8mn. Noting the careful planning, police believed Hutch may have been the mastermind, but, again, he was not charged due to a lack of evi- dence. In his interview with RTE in 2008, Hutch complained that the papers had linked him to the Brinks-Al- lied heist so much that “I'm beginning to believe I done [sic] it myself”. Strict libel laws prevented him from being named in the press at the time of the heist, but hearing stories of Hutch’s sober mien, disciplined lifestyle and aversion to drugs, one journalist coined a sobriquet that stuck. “The Monk” was born. Media fascination grew. Despite ostensibly never having held a job, Hutch built a multimillion-euro inter- national property portfolio. According to him, the source of some of the funds he had invested was none other than the state, through a compen- sation payment for an injury he received while in prison. Money from a newspaper libel action also helped. With typical chutzpah, he claimed from Securicor for whiplash when one of its vans collided with his car. Being rich enabled Hutch, who mar- ried his childhood sweetheart Patricia, to move to the nearby seaside suburb of Clontarf, sending his five children to pri- vate schools in a bid to stop them from following in his footsteps. In the early 1980s, Michael O’Sullivan was making a name for himself as an inner-city cop. The Troubles were rag- ing north of the border, and O’Sullivan recalls a Dublin awash with guns as IRA paramilitaries held up banks and car- ried out kidnappings to fund their armed campaign. With scant police resources focused largely on the repub- licans, young Dublin gangsters easily got their hands on weapons and began to take a leaf out of the paramilitaries’ rob- bery playbook. “There was a feeling of anarchy,’ says O'Sullivan, who went on to head the Garda National Drugs and Organised Crime Bureau and later became assistant commissioner in his 40-year police career The young O’Sullivan was dispatched to a newly formed armed unit that pro- vided back-up to police who regularly found themselves under fire. Armed with an Uzi submachine gun and hand guns, he and a partner cruised the city. Following a heist in 1981, they came face to face with Hutch, who was cornered behind the wheel of his car. The teenage robber was well known to police and O’Sullivan was convinced he had a weapon. He stared into Hutch’s eyes, his finger closing over the Uzi’s trigger, before, a split- second later, Hutch, who was unarmed, was hauled out of the car and arrested. Without sufficient evi- dence to charge him, Hutch was eventu- ally released. Hutch was later to tell RTE: “Oh yes [I am | a convicted criminal, I know that. But not a convicted armed robber. Nota convicted hitman.” Yet by the autumn Hutch waiting for the results of the general election to be announced in Dublin, December 1 2024 — Charies McQuillan/Getty image “You were bloody starving ... You had to get into crime to feed yourself, never mind dress yourself’ Gerry Hutch of 1996, he was in the crosshairs of a whole new crackdown on gangland crime. The IRA shooting of police officer Jerry McCabe and the contract killing by drug dealers of journalist Veronica Guerin, just three weeks apart, had out- raged the public. In response, the force set up the Criminal Assets Bureau (CAB) to tax the proceeds of crime. Hutch was an early target. In 1999, he made a settlement, worth about €2mn today, to the CAB. The Monk got lucky. Two properties he was ordered to sell to pay his CAB debt soared in value as Ireland’s Celtic Tiger economic boom took off. Hutch settled up with the police and coolly pocketed the difference — more than IRL£450,000. “He had a certain mind- set — discipline and brains,” says O’Sulli- van. “There aren’t many who leave prison financially successful and don’t end up back inside.” A few years after settling with the bureau, Hutch launched a taxi service, which he named Carry Any Body. The acronym was lost on noone. If Hutch was going straight, some in his circle were rushing headlong into the drugs trade that was transforming Dub- lin’s gangland. The Celtic Tiger had unleashed unheard-of prosperity and dealers were cashing in. As violence escalated into turf wars, Hutch attended anti-drugs meetings in the north inner- city. He helped set up the Corinthians boxing club to keep youngsters off the streets. The two-time Olympic gold medallist boxer Kellie Harrington started out at the club. Photos and newspaper clippings of The Monk, including with Mike Tyson, are proudly on display on the walls, and Hutch used the venue for campaign events in the election run-up. “A nice person, a nor- mal person,” is head coach Kevin Corc- oran’s assessment. When I moved to Ireland from Mexico in 2021, I hardly expected to be writing about drug cartels again, still less an Irish clan that was on the radar of US law enforcement. I had covered the sensa- tional escape and recapture of Joaquin “El Chapo” Guzman. Now here I was, writing about Dublin’s very own narcos, the Kinahan clan, holed up in Dubai, with bounties on their heads and the noose beginning to close around them. In contrast, Nicola Tallant, an author and investigative journalist with the Sunday World tabloid, has devoted her career to feeding Ireland’s insatiable gangland fascination. Her podcast Crime World is one of the country’s most popu- lar. A three-part video interview she conducted with The Monk before the election reached an audience of 14mn (Ireland’s population is about 5mn). We meet in a café in the seaside town of Dun Laoghaire, an affluent south Dublin suburb less than 10 miles from Hutch’s old stamping ground (though ‘He wasnt a Robin Hood. There's no such thing as an ordinary decent criminal’ Former senior police officer Michael O'Sullivan Tallant says there is no shortage of drugs here either). She is friendly but clearly formidable, having built trust with crime bosses over the years — to the point that she says the hard-as-nails Hutch “welled up a few times” during their podcast. What moved him to tears were mem- ories of a bitter feud that cost the lives of some of his closest relatives and friends. As events unfolded, details of the may- hem were widely reported. The Monk’s nephew Gary Hutch had fallen in — and then out — with Ireland’s most powerful drug lord, Daniel Kinahan. After Gary helped organise a botched hit on his life, Kinahan wanted revenge. The Monk, who by now was living a quieter life in Spain, reached a gangland gentleman’s agreement to save his nephew. But Kinahan reneged on the truce. The younger Hutch was murdered, anda hitman sent to take out The Monk in his favourite Lanzarote bar on New Year’s Eve 2015. Hutch hid behind a pillar and escaped, but any plans for sunny semi- retirement had evaporated. Five weeks later, in February 2016, members of the Hutch family were responsible for an ambush at the weigh-in for a boxing match being pro- moted by Kinahan in The Regency Hotel in north Dublin, according to court findings. The target of the hit squad, which included gunmen dis- guised as emergency response police, was Kinahan himself. The raid back- fired when the wrong man, David Byrne, was killed and Kinahan got away. But it was to prove a declaration of war. Contract killers, allegedly dis- patched by the Kinahans, targeted the Hutch family and associates. In response, heavily armed police were deployed to the streets of Dublin’s inner- city, terrifying locals. Over the next couple of years, the feud claimed 18 lives, including Hutch’s brother Eddie and an innocent man mistaken for a Hutch associate. In April 2021, a warrant for Hutch’s arrest was issued. Four months later, Spanish police swooped as he was sitting with his wife in an Italian restaurant on the Costa del Sol. Extra- dited home, and charged with the mur- der of David Byrne, Hutch found him- self back in jail for the first time in four decades and preparing to face the non- jury Special Criminal Court in what the media dubbed the “Gangland Trial of the Century”. After nearly two years in jail, with grey hair touching his shoulders and a thick beard, Hutch was likened toa cast- away as he sat in court for the 52-day Regency trial. But when the verdict came in April 2023, it was clear that the evidence against him had proved flimsy, the prosecution witness unreliable and the charges against him, in the minds of some police, unfathomable. Many had wanted to see him face an allegation of involvement in a criminal organisation. As police believe had happened many times before, Hutch had again slipped through the net. The verdict at the Special Criminal Court “embarrassed the state”, Tallant said. “He’s been fighting [police] like cowboys and Indians for years and he’s always won.” Little wonder he is “an egomaniac’, says Tallant. She also says he is “quite mental, funny” and nota lit- tle paranoid. He never uses the front door at home, she tells me. “He always goes over the wall. It’s just habit.” But watching the Regency trial unfold, Tallant says she also observed someone who had spent years seething over the consequences of the feud witha cartel prepared to break all the old gang- land rules. “This was his city,” she says. “He had managed to legitimise himself in the limo years, driving celebrities around town... Daniel Kinahan tried to take everything he had.” When Hutch jetted into Dublin from Lanzarote last November, the long hair and the beard were gone. He rolled up on a scooter to submit his candidacy, and shimmied up lampposts to put up election posters. The film director Jim Sheridan, who hails from Dublin’s north inner-city and has known Hutch since the early days of the boxing club, was so intrigued by his election bid that he considered making a movie about him, a project he still doesn’t altogether rule out. Sheridan believes Hutch “wanted to get in [to the Dail] and see what he could contribute at a community level”. But Tallant thinks there was something else too. Hutch has harboured hatred of the authorities stretching all the way back to his time in reform school and prison, she says. His election bid was another way for him to “put it up to the state”. She adds: “This wasn’t a whim.” It was his way of saying, “You thought I was nothing. I'll show you.” Both agree he'd have made a terrible politician. But for the myth of The Monk, the election campaign proved a masterstroke. The former cop O’Sulli- van laments the media’s willingness to play along. “He wasn’t a Robin Hood guy. There’s no such thing as an ordi- nary decent criminal. And people tend to forget the nitty-gritty of it,” he says. A couple of months on, Hutch is still under investigation in the Spanish money-laundering case, though he remains on bail. But the Regency trial left open a bigger question: is Hutch just the patriarch of a close-knit family steeped in criminality? Or is he the actual boss of an organised crime group? The court ruled that Hutch was “head of the family”. But it also said there was “a reasonable possibility that nothing was carried out by the Hutch organised crime group without his say-so”. That trial may have been just a warm-up because, as recently reported, the director of public prosecutions is deciding whether to bring organised crime charges against Hutch stemming from a long-running investigation into allegations of major police collusion. For now, The Monk may have slipped out of the spotlight. But it’s unlikely to stay that way. Jude Webber is the FT’s Ireland correspondent 22 February/23 February 2025 asta is so essential to the Ital- ian identity that a whole canon of rules has developed around it: what wheat should be used, how much bite it should have, what sauces go with which shapes. Just try grating cheese on sea- food pasta and you will feel the earth shaking with generations of nonnas turning in their graves. But if you look further south or east on the shores of the Med you may find wheaty strands on your plate in dishes from Greece all the way to Morocco, tak- ing on local flavours and sensibilities with far fewer rules attached. With all due love and respect to Italy, we sometimes want to try something different — and to remember that pasta is about fun, ease and, most of all, com- fort. These three recipes are designed to take you on atour of the region and open your mind to new pasta possibilities. and Itamar Srulovich serve up three perfect pastas, and not one from Italy Recipe | Honey & Coss Sarit Packer - i _* av Sa a =<. et sp. Et al 7 t/ ; ~~ -~ f * FT Weekend ‘\ * = -% ; -< Patricia Niven Kokoras Krasatos rooster cooked in red wine with Hilopites pasta To serve three to four Versions of this heavenly dish are made all around Greece, but the most memorable one we had was in the misty, pine-clad mountains of Arcadia, the real one in the Peloponnese, in a place called Zerzova, which was Officially a restaurant but felt more like a home: there were hand-woven dowry rugs, copper pots and Ottoman-era guns on the wall, and a warm, hospitable owner who didn’t mind sharing the recipe. Do not be deceived by the humble look of this dish — the flavours here are deep and gratifying. Ingredients 6 chicken thighs on the bone (850-900g) 1 tsp table salt Freshly ground black pepper A small bunch of thyme 2 banana shallots, peeled and diced (about 150g) Rishta bil Adas lentil and pasta soup To serve four to six This is the great unifier in Lebanon and Syria. Muslims break the fast with it during Ramadan, Christians eat it during Lent, Jews during the Sabbath and on Yom Kippur, and 3 sticks of celery, thinly sliced (150g) 2 plum tomatoes, diced (about 160g) 1tbs tomato paste 250ml red wine 250ml boiling water 200g Hilopites pasta (or Greek orzo, vermicelli or any small soup pasta) Method 1. Heat your oven to 180C (fan assisted). 2. Heat an oven-safe sauté pan (about 22cm in diameter) on a medium heat and add the chicken thighs skin side down (the fat will render out of them, so there is no need to add oil). Season the flesh part with all the salt and plenty of freshly ground black pepper (this will be the only seasoning to the dish, so don’t use less than a full teaspoon of table salt). Cook for about six minutes without moving until the skin browns. Check the skin by flipping the chicken. If the skin isn’t crispy yet, cook for another few minutes. Ingredients for toppings (optional) 2 tbs olive oil 2 red chilli, thinly sliced Handful fresh chopped coriander Crispy fried shallots 1 lemon, cut into wedge 3. Once the skins have coloured, flip all the chicken and cook for five minutes, then remove to a plate on the side. 4. Add the thyme, shallots and celery to the fat that has formed in the pan. Be aware the thyme will fizzle a bit, but that will enhance its flavour. Sauté for five minutes, add the tomatoes and sauté for another two minutes. Next add the tomato paste and cook while mixing for another minute. 5. Add the red wine, and return the chicken, skin side up to the pan. Bring to a boil and cook for five minutes at a steady boil, then add the boiling water, and again boil for five minutes. Add the pasta all around the chicken thighs and transfer the whole pot to the oven to cook for 30 minutes. 6. The pasta should have drunk all the water and crisped up in places, but when you break into it the inside will be soft and moist and comforting. Ashkenazi Kugel with dates and cinnamon when it’s not a high holiday, you eat rishta anyway! It is cheap, quick and easy to make, nourishing physically and emotionally, and weak-at-the- knees delicious. This soup is so intensely savoury, it demands something fresh on top — chopped coriander, a healthy squeeze of lemon and some heat — make the quick chilli oil suggested below, or use your favourite chilli sauce. The crispy onions are very traditional but why bother with the faff of frying them at home? The shop- bought version is good enough. Ingredients for the soup 3 tbs olive oil 2 large onions, peeled, halved and thinly sliced (about 300g) 2 tsp salt 4, cloves of garlic, peeled and sliced (about 20g) Small cinnamon stick 1 bunch coriander, roughly chopped (about 40g, save 10g for garnish) 1 tbs ground cumin 200g brown lentils 2.5! water 200g vermicelli pasta or dry egg noodles Method 1. In a large saucepan, heat the olive oil on a medium-low heat, add the onions and one of the teaspoons of salt, and sauté slowly, stirring occasionally, until the onions are very soft and are just starting to stick to the bottom of the pan. It should take about 12-15 minutes. 2. Add the garlic and cinnamon stick, and continue cooking for another two minutes. Add the coriander and cumin, and cook for another two minutes, stirring occasionally. 3. Add the lentils and the water. Increase the heat to bring to a boil, then lower the heat again and simmer for 20 minutes. 4. Add the pasta and the second teaspoon of salt and cook for the last six minutes before the soup is ready to serve. If using a different pasta, cook it until it is soft. 5. For the topping, if using, heat the oil, add the chilli and cook for 30 seconds, then remove from the heat. Top each bowl of soup with any or all of the toppings; a little chilli and its oil, chopped coriander, crispy shallots. Serve lemon wedges on the side. Makes an 18cm-round kugel To serve six to eight Think bread and butter pudding but with pasta instead of bread and so more textured, more layered and much crispier on top. This is hardcore comfort and has the power to turn a winter night from grim to cosy. We like it best fresh from the oven, crisp on top and a bit wobbly within, but as leftovers go, a cold slice for breakfast is up there, not unlike cold lasagne. This is easily adaptable to your taste and what you have at home — cinnamon and prunes can replace the vanilla and dates, or orange blossom water, orange zest and soaked raisins will work a treat, but for us, the fudgy dates and the childish innocence of vanilla make for the gold standard. Ingredients for the base 250g dry egg noodles or dry egg pappardelle 200m! double cream 3 eggs, beaten Seeds from 1 vanilla pod or 1 tbs real vanilla essence 8 Medjool dates, pitted and sliced in 4-6 pieces 70g golden caster sugar Ingredients for the toppings 1 tbs demerara sugar 20g butter, cut into 4 cubes Method 1. Heat your oven to 170C (fan assisted). Boil the pasta in salted water for six minutes, then strain and rinse in cold water to stop it overcooking. 2. Mix the cooked pasta with the rest of the ingredients for the base and transfer to a lined baking tin or oven-safe pan (not a loose bottom pan). Place a piece of baking paper on the top and press it down with an oven-safe plate or metal lid, and bake for 30 minutes. 3. Carefully remove from the oven. Remove the pressing plate and top paper, sprinkle the sugar and the butter over the top. 4. Increase the oven temperature to 180C, and bake for the last 15-20 minutes until golden brown. 5. You can serve the kugel hot or at room temperature, both work and are delicious. Store any leftovers in the fridge. How to make 21 Magazine | Food & drink eee ee PPP PPP PPP eee eee Pee eee eee eee Pee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee Pee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee) SEER EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EE EE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EE EE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EERE EE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE MEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EE EE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE REET EEE EEE EERE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EE EEE EEE MEE EE EEE EEES Pee eee eee ee ee ee eee eee Cee eee ee ee eee eee eee eee Ce eee eee eee ee eee ee eee eee ee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee eee ee ee eee Cee ee eee ee ee eee eee eee ee Ce eee ee eee ee eee ee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee ee eee ee eee ee eee eee ee eee eee eee Cee ee ee eee ee eee ee eee ee Cee eee eee ee ee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee eee eee ee Pee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee Cee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee? Pee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee Cee eee eee wine like a South Jancis Robinson Wine n Australia, the 2025 vintage is already under way, while in the northern hemisphere, this year’s crop of wine grapes won't ripen until at least July. This contrast between the hemispheres has proved convenient for winemakers anxious to cram as much experience as possible into their lives, for jobbing cellar rats and for next-generation European wine producers keen to expand their horizons. It has also encouraged some established wine producers to set up an enterprise in the other hemisphere. Torres in Spain was the first to branch out in this way; the family’s Chilean operation dates from 1979. Since then, there have been many others — mainly with northern hemisphere roots: Bourgeois of Sancerre in New Zealand, Chapoutier of the Rhéne in Australia and California’s Paul Hobbs in Argentina. It works the other way round too. Australia’s Treasury Wine Estates now has considerable holdings in California and is dabbling in joint ventures in Europe. Julien Schaal, of Julien Schaal Wines, is rather different. The operation that he runs with his wife Sophie is definitively bi-hemispherical but does not own a single vine. They have imported a distinctly un-European wine business model into their native France, making excellent wine by buying in grapes. Schaal was born just outside Strasbourg, not into a wine family, but soon set his sights on becoming a sommelier. Two months working on the French Riviera was enough to shatter his dreams. He'd been hoping to be able to recommend obscure wines to appreciative customers but, instead, was simply asked to supply as many big names as possible to a largely Russian clientele. This propelled him to wine school in Beaune, learning how to sell and then make wine. In Burgundy, he was the only student without a family wine domaine to inherit and an obvious place to gain practical experience. Fortunately, his teacher recommended him as an intern to a friend at Domaine du Vieux Télégraphe in Chateauneuf-du- Pape in the southern Rhone. The following January, Schaal was introduced to the South African producer Bouchard Finlayson. He intended to go there for just three months to help with the harvest, but he fell in love with the South African wine scene. “There’s something very easy about the relationships between wine people there,” the 43-year-old Schaal told me when I visited him in Alsace last November. Back in Europe for the northern hemisphere 2003 harvest, Schaal was sent to Lebanon for six months by Vieux Télégraphe, which had just invested in the wine operation Massaya. “It was the trip of my life,” he says now. “A hard one, but something you need to do in your twenties. We were buying grapes from the Bekaa Valley close to the Syrian border African, in France and used to go to Damascus for fun on Saturday night.” After this adventure, South Africa beckoned again and Schaal returned there to a proper job at Bouchard Finlayson in the Hemel-en-Aarde Valley, inland from Hermanus. Gordon Newton Johnson from the winery overlooking Bouchard Finlayson became a good friend and made the then 23-year-old Schaal an irresistible offer: a job plus space in the Newton Johnson winery to make his own wine. In 2005, Schaal spent his life savings of €5,000 on his first intake of grapes. “It was a fabulous opportunity,” he says. “I still think I’ve been very lucky.” He must have some skill too, for Julien Schaal’s Mountain Vineyards Pinot Noir 2023 from Walker Bay has just won the South ‘I probably pay way too much for my grapes because the growers know I’m French’ African wine equivalent of an Olympic gold medal: Pinot Noir of the Year in this year’s Platter’s Guide, the South African wine bible. Since 2010, with a short break at a friend’s winery, he’s been making the increasingly admired Julien Schaal Wines at the respected Paul Cliiver winery in nearby Elgin. According to Paul Cliiver Jr, Schaal has “brought an exciting dimension to winemaking in South Africa. One of the things I’ve always loved about Julien is his calm, solution- driven approach to challenges, best reflected in his signature phrase, ‘It is not a problem.” Schaal met his oenologist wife Sophie when she was an intern chez Cliiver and, since 2021, she has made her own Sophie Schaal South African wines. The couple and their Julien Schaal recommends... Alsace gems e Yura Jintaro Yura, a Japanese winemaker who started his own winery in Alsace. @les_vins_de_yura on Instagram e Achillée Pierre and Jean Dietrich, who left a co-operative to start their own successful winery. achillee.alsace @ Terres d’étoiles Christophe Mittnacht, who recently set up his own winery after parting ways with his cousin. tlerresdetoiles.com e@ La Grange de I’Oncle Charles A new producer building from scratch. Ja-grange-de-l-oncle- charles.com @ Domaine Exeterra Florence Kachelhoffer, a young vigneronne who started her own winery after working for Marcel Deiss. domaine-exeterra.fr young daughter live not in South Africa, however, but in the Alsace village of Hunawihr, in a beautiful modern house at the foot of the Clos Ste Hune vineyard, whose bone-dry Riesling has been made world-famous by the local Trimbach wine-producing family, whose origins date back to 1626. Schaal is keenly aware of the many differences between the French and South African wine culture. “In France, the fact that you ve made wine for 100 years is an advantage, but South African consumers are always looking for something new.” An undaunted novice, he decided to try something different in his homeland. “I saw that the South African system of buying in grapes [rather than owning vines] works,” explains Schaal. “And I thought that I'd love to do the same thing in France, even though the entry ticket is much more expensive.” Grape prices in Alsace are two or three times higher than those in South Africa. While Schaal’s South African wines are made from the Burgundy grapes Chardonnay and Pinot Noir, in Alsace he specialises in dry Rieslings made from grapes bought from a range of top-notch organic Grand Cru vineyards. He initially worked with a friendly neighbour, Olivier Biecher, but from 2013 he has gone his own way, determined to concentrate on top quality. His Alsace wines, about 25,000 bottles a year, are now so highly regarded that they have to be allocated. The Schaals have built an immaculate winery next to their house, complete with concrete eggs shipped from South Africa. According to Schaal, “South African grapes are extremely inexpensive and I probably pay way too much for my grapes because the growers know I’m French.” He worries that low grape prices in South Africa will result in people pulling out vineyards — apples are more profitable. “But at least Walker Bay grapes are 10 times more expensive than Swartland’s, so that helps to keep vines in the ground there.” Outside Europe and especially in California, the model of creating a “boutique” wine label by buying in grapes may be reasonably common, but it is much less so in France (although it has been growing recently in Burgundy because of stratospheric land prices there). During my visit, Schaal could think of only one other Alsace wine producer, Jintaro Yura, in a similar grape-buying position to himself. But he subsequently sent the list of “a few true gems that showcase an exciting, fresh approach to Alsace wine” published here. The Schaal family have just arrived at their rented seaside apartment in South Africa’s Somerset West, shuttling between wineries, with his proud parents in grandparental role. Tasting notes, scores and suggested drink dates on Purple Pages of JancisRobinson.com, International stockists on wine-searcher.com Debora Szpilman 22 Life SNAPSHOT ‘Feet froma Statue of Artemis’ (2022) by Don McCullin DEERE EE REE EEE EE RTE EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE ETE EERE EEE EEE EE EEE EE EE EEE EEE ETE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE ERE EE EEE EE EEE ED TEER EE EEE EEE ERE EEE ETE EE EEE EE EEE ESTEE EEE ETE EEE EE EE EEE ETT EE EEE EEE ERE TEER HEE EE EEE EEE He EEE EE Hee British photojournalist Don McCullin made his name as a documenter of war. Southern Frontiers, a two-volume work published in 2010, shifted the frontline, to record the ruins of the Roman empire in north Africa and the Middle East. The final book in his trilogy trades contested lands for hushed museum interiors. The Roman Conceit, released this month, studies ancient marble with an almost spiritual devotion. With historian and author Barnaby Rogerson as his academic guide, McCullin considers sculptures in reverent close-up, an act of “meditation and adoration”. This image, taken in Istanbul's Archaeological Museum, shows the feet of Artemis. Its fragmentation allows us to appreciate details beyond the sculpture’s unlikely survival. The delicate acanthus pattern, her curled little toe, remind us of her status as both warrior and protector, goddess of the hunt and of childbirth. Natalie Perman ‘The Roman Conceit’ is published by Gost Tree ee CTT Tee TTT Tee Ee Te LLL LLL LLL LLL LLL ELLE LLL LEE LLL LLL Lee and the end of the world Jo Ellison n the long-running mud-slinging spectacle that is Blake Lively versus Justin Baldoni, Lively made arare public appearance asa guest on the entertainment juggernaut Saturday Night Live’s 50th anniversary show last weekend. She turned up with her husband Ryan Reynolds, the suave Canadian actor best known for his role in Deadpool and for his co-ownership of Wrexham AFC. He made a joke, apparently about his wife’s lawsuit against Baldoni, in which she has accused her Jt Ends with Us co-star of sexual harassment and an attempt to mount a smear campaign. The moment provoked outrage: Baldoni’s lawyer pronounced that “I’m unaware of anybody frankly whose wife has been sexually harassed and has made jokes about that type of situation”. The outing was deemed a mis-step by the court of social media. The scorecard shifted once again. Perhaps you are unfamiliar with the most debasing PR battle of the modern era? Perhaps you don’t know who Blake Lively is? Unless you're a millennial, it’s possible you missed her career-making turn in the hit 2007-12 TV drama about insufferable teen scions, Gossip Girl. Lively has occupied a plum position in alpha Hollywood without much in the way of hits: instead her fame has been largely sustained via entrepreneurial endeavours promoting haircare, her favourite recipes and covers for US Vogue. This particular saga began in August, during promotion for It Ends with Us, a film adaptation of the bestselling book by Colleen Hoover about breaking a cycle of domestic abuse. Observers soon noticed a cooling of relations between Lively (the film’s star and one of its producers) and Baldoni, the director and actor who played her on-screen abuser and paramour. In December, Lively set out her case against Baldoni, accusing him of on-set harassment and a co-ordinated smear campaign. It was documented at length by the New York Times article “We Can Bury Anyone’, in which it Scan the code or go to ft.com/puzzles to find all the FT’s crosswords, games and quizzes in one place was presented that Lively, an unusually outspoken and powerful female in the industry, had been victim of a strategy that manipulated decades- old misogynies. Baldoni sued the NYT for libel and filed a federal lawsuit in New York against Lively, Reynolds, the publicist Leslie Sloane and Sloane's agency Vision PR, in which he claimed $400mn. Baldoni says he has been used as a “scapegoat” for Lively’s negative press attention, and that he has done nothing wrong. He has since set up a website to support his lawsuit on which he has uploaded a screed of he-said-she-said documentary evidence, including notes, texts and voice memos. A trial has now been set to take place in New York in March 2026. Taylor There's a strange comfort to be found in a sorry tale of 3ad Hollywood, narcissism and self-delusion Swift may be called to testify as having key insights into the dispute. Lively and Swift were once such good buddies that Swift name-checked Lively’s children in a song. Things have cooled since the revelation of a text, included in Baldoni’s lawsuit, in which Lively compares herself to Khaleesi in Game of Thrones: “Like her, I happen to have a few dragons,’ it reads, in an allusion to her celebrity circle. “My dragons also protect those I fight for. So really we all benefit from those gorgeous monsters of mine.” If Swift was indeed one of these “gorgeous monsters’, she has since reportedly exited the scene. According to Page Six of the New York Post, Swift “needs space” from their 10-year friendship and the pair no longer speak. The dispute is grim, unedifying and never-ending. It appears petty and embarrassing and, as has proven with so many he-said-she-said cases, its observers have split into opposing camps. No question, Baldoni seems like Chess solution 2612 1 Qxf5+! gxf5 2 Rh6+ Ke7/g7 3 Nxf5 mate. Daily crosswords, plus Polymath, the FT Weekend Magazine crossword and mini crossword & Round The Links and the weekly FirstFT news quiz @ All the latest news from the world of chess & Bridge @ Binary and Word Circle puzzles @ All the FT interactive online games a douchebag: how else would you describe a man who lists among his “gifts” an ability to “listen to women’, and once sent Reynolds a cringe- inducing overture asking if they might “be friends”. Similarly, with each new revelation, Lively stands on ever shakier ground. Some of her accusations have been complicated by documentary evidence that appears to contradict her. She too has sent cringey messages about her “love language” and how she’s “spicy and playfully bold”. At this point, the duo appear to be caught in a death grip, a pact of mutual destruction in which neither party can claim victory. As a study of how not to be a modern celebrity, it’s a cautionary tale. Yet, with every week comes a new chapter; the story continues to roll on. Fires have raged through California, the Israel-Hamas war hangs suspended on a fragile ceasefire, the Nato alliance is dissolving by the hour. And still Lively and Baldoni have kept on slugging out their various grievances for all to hear. Last week, we learnt that the risk level of an asteroid hit, courtesy of the so-called space rock 2024 YR4, had reached the highest- ever alert. There's a 3.1 per cent chance of impact on December 22 2032. Maybe the only thing that will stop Khaleesi is an extinction-level event. At a point when the news is endlessly scary, the Baldoni-Lively saga has been the perfect salve: it’s the ultimate distraction, a “good news” story, if you will. When the world is so unstable, there’s a strange comfort to be found in a sorry tale of Bad Hollywood, narcissism and self-delusion on an epic scale. I thank God for Lively and Baldoni, if only so that I can anaesthetise myself from the real news. As long as I can bury my head in this pop-culture battle, I don’t need to think about Putin's increasing power. People ask why we “care” about celebrity spats and scandals. But that’s not the point at all. When the news agenda is so overwhelming, I want stories about which I need not care at all. ocllison@f Arts The anti-woke overcorrection is here Janan Ganesh he thing about zealots, conspiracists, monomaniacs and cranks is their initial reasonableness. Few of them start off a conversation with their most extreme opinion. Their tactic is to establish common ground first, asa salesperson gets a customer saying “Yes” to some opening questions. Only then does the zeal seep through, by which time it is too awkward to dissent. So, cornered at a party, I might endure the following exchange: Crank: This Sadiq Khan is a useless mayor. Poor Janan: Yeah, what a chump. C: Renaming the train lines after suffragettes and such. PJ: It’s like, mate, just catch the phone thieves. C: But then I suppose it’s to be expected. PJ: How so? C: Well, you know he’s a Soros pawn, don’t you? PJ: Oh. As the conversation grows more outlandish, I resort to non-committal sounds (“Mmm!”) rather than words. Now imagine this bait-and-hook tactic on a grand scale, and you have the anti-woke movement. Until recently, conservatives put forward a case that had lots of voters nodding: that woke-ism is illiberal dogma; that liberals themselves are too weak to stand up to it. Now, having prevailed, this argument is sliding into free speech absolutism, scolding of the insufficiently patriotic and a general obsession with culture for which the public appetite is smaller. Read JD Vance’s Munich speech. Or Kemi Badenoch’s in London soon after, which the 45-year-old aspiring UK premier began with a line (“Western civilisation is in crisis”) that could be the house motion in an intervarsity debating tournament. As someone who called Peak Woke early, and wasn’t sad to see it go, I'll say this: The public wants woke disposed of. It doesn’t want to be subjected to an ongoing conversation about the topic. And it certainly never signed up for the geometric opposite of that movement, which is cultural conservatism. The right is overcorrecting. As proof of western crisis, Badenoch The public wants woke cisposed of, not an ongoing conversation about the topic lingered on a poll in which young Brits showed too little love of country. (Russia, meanwhile, she passed over in a sentence, which should establish her essential unseriousness beyond doubt.) Even if the speech wasn’t self-negating — our civilisation is “amazing”, but also so brittle that it can't survive a cohort of stroppy youths — why is she talking about this foolery at all? What is a UK government meant to do about the arc of civilisation? I don’t know her economic plan but I am increasingly well-apprised of her cultural angst. If this is more Hegelian abstraction than I want in a prime minister, imagine what the electorate makes of it. fg FINANCIAL
