METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: HOWARD AMOS lages and a handful of pensioners remi- niscing about the Soviet Union and rail- ing ...
ID: 145

CONTENT:
HOWARD AMOS lages and a handful of pensioners remi- niscing about the Soviet Union and rail- ing against Gorbachev and Yeltsin for having “pissed everything away”. Amos, fluent in Russian, interviewed some interesting characters. Vladimir Orlov was put in charge ofa Pskov flax mill in 1987. For centuries, flax used to bea cash crop for the region, cultivated to produce linen. The British Royal Navy was once a major client. Glo- bally, flax’s popularity began to wane in the 1970s, as linen was replaced by cheap cotton. The Soviet central planning system kept the Pskov industry propped up, but it collapsed in the 1990s as Russia embraced capitalism. Orlov witnessed it first-hand, recalling improbable stories of barter deals, scams and banditry before the inevitable closure. Up until recently, Sergei Kirin was employed by German Volksbund, which has been tracking down hundreds of lost Wehrmacht cemeteries in the Pskov region, obliterated under Stalin. Such work would have been impossible with- out a Russian intermediary even during the thaw of the 1990s. Kirin helped carry out exhumations and re-bury Ger- man soldiers for three decades, yet, like most Russians today, he is fiercely resentful of the west and supports the Russian cause in Ukraine. Not everyone shares that view. Lev Shlosberg is a Pskov politician, who has been in opposition to the government since the mid-1990s. In 2014, he was badly beaten up after he had helped reveal that Russian soldiers had been assisting separatists in eastern Ukraine. Today, with most Russian opposition politicians either dead, in exile or behind bars, Shlosberg is a lonely figure without a public office, treading a tight- rope of his convictions, well aware of the futility of his cause. As Amos takes us to Pskov institu- tions for children with learning disabili- ties or a psychiatric hospital where many patients end up staying for life because of alcohol abuse, he never offers judgment, even as children’s car- ers turn a blind eye to bullying. An orphanage may well be the only employer in town, where carers simply have to detach themselves emotionally to conserve their own mental health. Whether writing about Putin support- ers, ordinary men volunteering to fight in Ukraine or fishermen frustrated by EU regulations, Amos tells compelling stories of real lives, shaped by hardship, loss and painful contradictions. His empathy is genuine and contagious. 12 Books * FT Weekend 22 February/23 February 2025 Toe e ee ee Pee SSPE e Ee Pee Pee ee Pee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee Pee eee ee eee eee ee Pee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee Pee eee See eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee Pee eee Pee eee ee Pee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee Pee ee eee eee eee Pee eee Pe eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee Pee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee eee) POPP SUE ECU CSC EOE CPPCC SCOPE OCTOPUS ESTO e ECC PSEC ST OTOP SEUSS CEU PUES ETT CeCe Eee CeCe CCPC TORT ECC Cee CTP eee TPP e ee TT Pee CCT Ce PCC OPEC EET CCE UCPC Cee CCPC e TEC CeS ST POPES EUSP EES CECE CCST CCE CEST CCU CEST CUCU CTC C PES PUTCO CSCC UCC OCT OCOCECS TT POPU CEC EU EES CTU UCSC CUETO TCT CeCe CEC OCU ECE PCOS SCC COSTE CEST CCPC E ESCO ETT COUPES TO CUES CET SSCP C ECC ESTP CUCU ERCP ECSU TUCO RU TE OTC S STEP CETTE COPS RICCO C TUCO RCT EC ECU UTEP ES UST Cee UPC E Eee CeCe eee PP eee ee eee eee Tee eee ee Pee eee Teese ee eee eee eee Cee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee cee ee eee eee Cee ee eee eee cee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ees Pee e eee eee Ce eee eee eee eee eee Tee ee Tee eee ee ee Pee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ees Cece eee Tees Cee eee eee eee Cee Tee eee ee Pee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee Pee ers Cee Pee ee Pees Cee Pee eee eee eee ee eee cee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee cee eee eee ee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee Pee eee eee res Cee eee eee eee Te ee eee Tee eee eee eee ee re eee | A reassessment of nuclear power ve always hated teaching creative writing, if only because I’m at sucha loss to explain to students what it is about some storytellers who take readers in from the start and make them want to keep turning pages, while other storytellers, who would often seem toemploy the very same elements, excite only indifference or even aversion. That immediately engaging quality is impos- sible to teach if 1 don’t understand whatit is. Still, [know it whenI seeit. Despite prose that is unfussily straightforward or even plain, Curtis Sittenfeld has that gift. The Ohio- born fiction writer has published seven nov- els, including American Wife, loosely based on the First Lady Laura Bush, and Rodham, which riffs on what Hillary’s life might have been like had she never married the beguiling Bill. Following You Think It, I'll Say It, which was bril- liant, Sittenfeld is now publishing her second short-story collection, Show Don't Tell — which, not to put too fine a point on it, is also brilliant. (Her interim volume Help Yourself functions as a pre- view. Its three stories are included in the new collection, so don’t buy both.) A tasting menu, then. In “White Women LOL”, a woman urges a group of Sittenfeld has a knack for making daily events of regular people compelling moment by moment black restaurant patrons to take their drinks elsewhere, because they are crashing her friend’s birthday party ina private room — not realising that the period for which the room was rented has run out. The encounter is filmed, goes viral online, and tars the protago- nist as a racist. In an anything but obvi- ously related parallel narrative, she is also helping her friend find a lost dog. Sittenfeld handles the touchy racial theme with glancing elegance. In “The Richest Babysitter in the World”, a hard-up college student cares part-time for a couple's three-year-old daughter while the mother finishes her dissertation and the father works at his tech start-up. The babysitter moves to another city with her not-really-boy- friend, and then, in the kind of thrilling fast-forward that only short stories are prone to furnish, in a single paragraph she goes from acquiring her own apart- ment after graduation to changing careers, pelling a masters, Leaching for five years, earning a doctorate, getting married, and gaining tenure — whoosh, whoosh, there goes 30 years. During the same time, the father’s tech start-up has ballooned into an Amazon lookalike. Having once babysat for an Elon Musk/ Jeff Bezos mash-up provides the protag- onist constant opportunity for the ulti- mate name-drop. Yet on learning that her old employers are divorcing, she can’t help but wonder if the seemingly ordinary life she lives — the one thing that billions of dollars definitely can’t buy — makes her the lucky one. Another favourite of mine is “Fol- low-up”. A middle-aged woman gets unsettling mammogram results. There is a partially obscured mass in breasts that are “heterogeneously dense”, and Janie will require a follow-up ultra- sound. But what in this life, she wonders, Small wonders Prefer novels to short stories? Curtis Sittenfeld’s brilliant second MT Michelle Mildenberg collection might just change your mind, writes Lionel Shriver <a SHOW vont TELL ee ee ee CURTIS == SITTENFELD Show Don’t Tell by Curtis Sittenfeld Transworld £16.99/Random House $28, 320 pages is not heterogeneously dense? The story follows Janie through to the ultrasound, while she texts her best friend but doesn’t share her anxiety with her son or husband. Instead she recalls an intense sexual encounter before she married with aman who, she learns, has recently died. It’s impossible to compress here what makes this many-layered story so touching, so you'll have to take my word for it. It’s very louchiny indeed. Sittenfeld has a knack for making the small-scale daily events of regular peo- ple compelling moment by moment. Scenes are authentically realistic yet significant. Moreover, her “regular people” are as particular as regular people are to themselves in real life. She is not as overtly political as her fasci- nation with First Ladies might seem to imply, though she doesn’t shy from con- temporary issues. These stories brush up against the political rather than take issues straight on. Covid, Trump, Bernie Sanders, and #MeToo arise in conversa- tion only to subside. Given the domi- nance of cities in modern narratives, too — especially New York — it’s refreshing to read about much-neglected locations in flyover country: St Cloud, Minnesota; Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania; the University of Wisconsin. Sittenfeld is very good with time. She focuses close up ona short period of her characters’ lives in great detail, then speeds up and pulls back to great effect. Such giddying acceleration is a device especially available to the short story. In recollection years hence, events we've followed in the granular present — for the present is always granular — sud- denly look rather different. linpressively, Lov, Uhis author never telescopes what her stories mean. She conveys the impression that she’s exploring the meaning of a story hand in hand with the reader, and the point reveals itself to her and her audience simultaneously. But her stories do mean something. They don’t land on some pat Aesopian moral, and there's plenty of air here, plenty of nuanced ambiguity. But they’re not vague, fractional, or hope- lessly open-ended. I always finished these tales with a sense of satisfaction. I know, I know. Even if youre a fiction reader, you far prefer novels — as dol, as a rule. Well, think again: if you’re not into short stories, you're just reading the wrong ones. Read these. Lionel Shriver’s most recent novel ‘Mania’ is published by Borough Press and is out in paperback next month =! GENRE ROUND-UP ENVIRONMENT
