METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: LA BELLE MARAICHERE Place Sainte-Catherine Tia, 1000 Brussels Shrimp croquettes x2. €48 Sole meun...
ID: 135

CONTENT:
LA BELLE MARAICHERE Place Sainte-Catherine Tia, 1000 Brussels Shrimp croquettes x2. €48 Sole meuniére x2 €90 Half a bottle of Sancerre €28 Sparkling water €6 Espresso x2 €12 Total (inc tax) €184 He says that Antonio Guterres, the secretary-general of the United Nations, whom De Croo knows from his time as Belgium’s development minister, told him: “You'll find out that being prime minister is nice but being former prime minister is much nicer.” He pauses: “I have to say, over the past two weeks up to now, lagree.” The waiter arrives with the Sancerre. He insists I take a picture of both sides of the bottle for FT readers’ benefit. “We're being very exhaustive,’ De Croo quips. The son of Herman De Croo, a long-serving and popular Belgian minis- ter, De Croo grew up determined not to follow his father into politics and instead set out in business. He studied business engineering in Brussels before completing an MBA at the Kellogg School of Management in Chicago and founded an intellectual property rights start up, Darts-ip. Ina land of political dynasties (a study last year showed that about one in 10 Belgian MPs had parents in politics), De Croo said his father’s job was “one rea- son not to do it”. But after 10 years in the private sector, friends offered him an ultimatum after a few beers: “If you con- tinue saying you'll never do politics, then we want you to shut up [about it] or don't stay on the sidelines.” “That was a bit of an important moment,” he says. He stood for election in European elections in 2009 and quickly rose up the ranks of Open VLD, the same party to which his father belonged. Entering government for the first time in 2012, he served in various ministerial roles including development minister and finance minister. In 2020, despite his party coming sev- enth in national elections the previous year, he was called to try to form a gov- ernment. The so-called Vivaldi coali- tion that he led took over at the height of the Covid pandemic in September 2020. That was followed by guiding Belgium through Europe's energy crisis and gal- vanising support for Ukraine, in which Belgium has played an outsized role as home to Euroclear, guardian of €191bn of Russian frozen assets that have been used to guarantee a €45bn loan to Ukraine. Luckily for De Croo, “I feel at ease under pressure’, he says. We return to the pressure on Europe, which the former prime minister is determined should present an opportu- nity to Europeans rather than fill them with dread. “We are with our back against the wall and that is actually the moment where often Europe makes gigantic strides for- ward ...That’s been the case with Covid. It’s been the case with the energy crisis and the Ukraine war. That’s been the case when we had the financial crisis, that’s when as Europe- ans we go forward.” One example is a sudden impetus behind efforts to turn around Europe's slowing economy. He notes that thorny issues debated by EU ministers for many years, such as a capital markets union, now seem possible. Under pres- sure from businesses, recent moves by the European Commission to cut red tape are “quite remarkable”, he adds. A champion of industrial policy dur- ing Belgium’s turn holding the rotating EU presidency last year, De Croo advises that the Commission needs to stop indulging in overzealous policymaking if Europe is to save its industry from its current “manic depression”. ur croquettes arrive and the restaurant owner comes to check that his favourite customer is happy. De Croo tells me that you can squeeze lemon on them but he prefers without. I obediently follow his lead. They are steaming, unctuous and splurge all over the plate. As I chase bits of shrimp around with a fork, we turn back to the new US administration. De Croo has not met Trump but did have a chance encounter with Elon Musk, the US billionaire tasked by Trump with overseeing a radi- cal regulation-slashing agenda. The meeting happened in Musk’s hotel room in Stavanger, Norway, when the two happened to both be there for different reasons in 2022. Walking into the room, De Croo noticed 20 empty bottles of the Belgian lager Stella Artois on the side. “I said it looks like you had an interesting evening. And he smiled and I said, well, at least with a good beer.” Belgium does not have the vast industrial sites that would have inter- ested Musk, so the two talked technol- ogy — De Croo isa self-confessed “nerd”. “[ Musk] is obviously a smart thinker and he has a tendency to just start from the white page, which is always an inter- esting perspective to have.” Did you see indications of his turn towards radical rightwing politics then? “No”, De Croo says. You didn’t stay in touch? “No, we did not.” Belgium will face a steep challenge to meet defence spending targets that will placate Musk’s boss, who wants EU countries to spend 5 per cent of GDP on defence. The country currently hovers about 1.3 per cent, putting it near the bottom of the EU class. De Croo seems relieved that this will be a task for the new government, but says that with the US turning from “America First” to “America Only” under Trump, it is “quite clear that as Europeans we are on our own”. At least the debate over European countries providing security guarantees to Ukraine and putting boots on the ground has “matured”, he notes. “A lot of European leaders say, OK, we’re ready to doit. And I think we should.” He adds that bringing the UK into the defence discussion is a good way to open the door to deeper co-operation with the EU’s erstwhile member. “You can have big ambitions and big lofty goals, but you need a step forward and this is a very tangible and timely one.” The plates are cleared, along with some untouched bread, and our sole arrives dripping in butter. lask De Croo to take me back to the night of June 9 when he himself became a casualty of a voter swing to rightwing, anti-immi- grant parties. The outcome left the 49- year-old liberal in caretaker mode for 236 days until a new five-party coalition led by his Flemish nationalist rival Bart De Wever was agreed two hours beforea midnight deadline on January 31. De Wever is a separatist, pushing for greater autonomy for Belgium’s Flem- ish-speaking half. I say that moving to Belgium for the first time, I had been surprised to learn that there was even a debate about the country splitting in two. De Croo instantly closes it down: “Separatism? It's not a debate. No one wants to split up the country .. . Ithas been very often in political debates what serves if you don't want to discuss the real issues.” He compares the current state of play to Belgian surrealist art. “We have a fed- eral country that is now being led bya nationalist politician who has a core belief that he wants to split up the coun- try but who in his government pro- gramme has nothing on that topic ... That shows the resilience of the democracy we have.” But, I ask as we start to disentangle the fish from its bones, why are liberals like him being squeezed out of govern- ment nearly everywhere across Europe. Do centrist parties refuse to play dirty? “One of the things in the political debates we lost is that adversaries on the conservative side and on the populist and nationalist side were successful in projecting an image that we were not busy with the core things that people = FESTIVALS care about, the purchasing power, the living in the cities and so on,” he observes. “I think we were working on that, but populism is extremely good at find- ing small examples, blowing them up and saying, ‘Look, this is what is happening’. If you say that is dirty politics, yes, we haven't quite figured out how to do that.” In that case, will liberals survive the next few years? De Croo, as ever, is optimistic but says that it is incumbent on liberals to com- municate better. “One of the things we need to explain is that democracy is complicated,” he says. “Life is not a Dis- ney movie where you say something and in the end, everyone smiles and eve- rything is solved.” The waiter arrives to whip away the plates. De Croo, lamenting our failed attempt to get through the frites, asks if I want pudding but we stick to espressos and keep the plates of chips just in case. We return to Merkel, whose retire- ment from politics in 2021 has left a lin- gering vacuum among the EU’s 27 lead- ers, De Croo says. During summits there would come a point where Merkel would “right her back and all of us knew, OK now she’s going to talk . . . and from there she was extremely powerful”. He also has a begrudging respect for Hungary's self-styled “illiberal” leader ‘We are with our back against the wall and that is actually the moment where often Europe makes gigantic strides forward’ Viktor Orban, who sat next to De Croo around the council table. “He has a logi- cal reasoning. It’s not mine and I would disagree on many, many things but it’s interesting to understand his logic.” Asked whether Giorgia Meloni, Italy’s far-right prime minister, could act as a European conduit to Trump, De Croo says that Italy is one of the “main” Euro- pean countries so it is “not new” that Rome should play arole. It’s not clear yet what De Croo’s next step will be. For the moment he has swapped the European Council table for politics closer to home, becoming mayor of his hometown Brakel. He is also mulling using the experi- ence he had as development minister to work more with sub-Saharan Africa. If relations with the US have “to be put in the freezer for a few years”, he says, partnerships with the rest of the world will only matter more. So, I wonder as we drain our coffees, should we still be hopeful that the best is yet to come? “You had that up your sleeve,” he groans. “There is so much that is neces- sary and there is so much that is possi- ble”, he says, noting that we have not managed to touch on the “gigantic opportunity” of artificial intelligence during our two-hour lunch. “Definitely I believe the best is yet to come... . it will maybe be a bit harder [but] it’s not because it’s hard that we shouldn't do it.” Alice Hancock is the FT’s EU correspondent ~2fte 4 > J S e 7 * “~e 7 2 Ga / H id 2) Of SPEED Os 4 _ FESTIVALoFDREAMS
