METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: WEEK IN REVIEW Activism fears @ Leading asset managers BlackRock and Vanguard cancelled meetings ...
ID: 117

CONTENT:
WEEK IN REVIEW Activism fears @ Leading asset managers BlackRock and Vanguard cancelled meetings with companies in the middle of shareholder battles over fears they could violate new investor activism guidance issued by the US Securi- ties and Exchange Commission related to environ- mental, social and governance issues. e@ US technology giant Microsoft said it had suc- ceeded in harnessing a new state of matter to create the basic building gay blocks of a quantum a computer, capping a yj Ni 20-year endeavour | on the frontiers of § physics. @KKR clashed with management at ge FiberCop over a pro- jected €449mn earn- ings hole at the Italian telecoms company it bought last year in Europe's biggest private equity deal val- ued at €22bn. @ Mira Murati, OpenAl’s former chief technology officer, launched a rival artificial intelligence start-up called Thinking Machines Lab focused on making the technology widely accessible. e Deutsche Bank went on a three-year hiring spree that reversed almost all of the steep cuts to jobs imposed by chief executive Christian Sewing at the start of his tenure. @ Saudi Arabia’s sovereign wealth fund has demanded the eviction of the family of bankrupt Microsoft said it had succeeded in harnessing a new state of matter to create the basic building blocks of aquantum computer property tycoon René Benko from their palatial home in Innsbruck, as it seeks to recover millions in losses from the collapse of his Signa Group. e OpenAIl is considering granting special voting rights to its non-profit board as the $157bn start-up tries to fend off a takeover bid from Elon Musk. @ HSBC unveiled a goal of saving $300mn in 2025 and cutting $1.5bn from annual costs by the end of next year as the bank detailed the impact of chief executive Georges Elhedery’s overhaul. @ London-listed miner Anglo American wrote down the value of its De Beers diamond business by $2.9bn, its second impairment charge in two years, due toa slump in the market for the precious stones. @ UniCredit could accelerate its exit from Russia if there is a breakthrough on the Ukraine war, chief executive Andrea Orcel has said, with the Italian SS SSS £1.5bn S2.9bn Annual savings Writedown on the sought by HSBC value of De Beers diamond unit by Anglo American as it undergoes a radical overhaul bank one of the few large western lenders to have remained in the country. @ H&E Equipment Services accepted a bid from Herc Rentals of nearly $5.3bn, rebuffing an earlier takeover offer from US equipment rental rival United Rentals. @ The UK tax authority reversed a crackdown on limited liability partnerships that private equity and professional services firms had feared would result in hundreds of millions of pounds of retrospective tax liabilities. e Arvind Balan, chief financial officer at embattled UK engineer John Wood Group, stepped down after he admitted to misstating his professional qualifica- tions when the Financial Times questioned his CV. 12 COMPANIES & MARKETS FT Weekend Pee eee PEE SS PEP e See ee OEE Cee ee eee Pee ee eee eee eee eee eee Pee eee eee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee ee eee eee eee eee ee eee ee eee ee ee eee eee ee ee eee ee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee Pee ee eee ee eee eee eee ee eee Pee eee ee eee Ce eee ee eee Pee eee eee eee Pe eee eee eee eee Pee ee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee) CEE EE EERE EE EEE SEE EEE EEE EERE EERE EEE EERE EE EEE EERE EE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EE EERE EERE EEE EE CEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EERE EERE EERE E EEE EEE E EERE EEE CEE E REET E EEE EERE EEE EERE EEE CREE EEE EE EERE THEE EEE EE EEE EEE CREE EERE EEE EERE EERE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EERE SERRE EERE EEE EE EEE E EEO EERE EERE EEE EERE HEHE EEE EEE SHEER EERE EERE BEE EERE EEE EEE EH EERE EEE EEE EEE BEE HEE EEE EERE EH HEED eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee ee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee ee eee eee eee ee ee eee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee ee eee ee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee Pe ee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee ee eee Pee eee Top labels suffer rapid churn as Gucci creative boss joins march to the exits Upheaval highlights pressure on high-end brands amid waning of once-rapacious China demand 4 ‘ DY LAUREN INDVIK — LONDON ADRIENNE KLASA — PARIS As Gucci unveils its runway collection in Milan this month, the creative designer behind it, Sabato De Sarno, will not be there to take the customary bow. The Italian parted ways with the fash- ion house in early February, less than two years after parent Kering handed him the task of reviving its most prestig- ious brand. De Sarno’s exit is the latest in a light- ning series of top-level changes at the big houses, which are churning through creative and management talent at the fastest rate in decades. “I can’t remember a time in the last 20 years where we've seen this much change,” said Karen Harvey, founder of Karen Harvey Consulting, who head- hunts for luxury brands. The upheaval underscores the pres- sure on high-end brands during a mar- ket downturn, as the pandemic luxury boom recedes and the once-rapacious demand from Chinese consumers for expensive handbags and designer fash- ions wanes. But industry experts and analysts warn that such a rapid pace of renewal can confuse strategic goals and deny top talent the time required to make their mark. “I don’t think [two years] is the appro- priate breathing space for a brand,” Erwan Rambourg, global head of con- sumer and retail equity research at HSBC, said of De Sarno’s tenure, adding it was “way too short”. Gucci's split with its creative director did not come as a shock, say industry insiders, even if the abruptness was a surprise, as De Sarno’s designs had been in stores for only a short time. Sales at Kering’s flagship brand fell 21 per cent like for like in 2024 and the group issued several profit warnings. Indeed, half the brands in Kering’s fashion and leather goods division, including Gucci and Saint Laurent, have changed chief executives in the past 18 months, and three, including Bottega Veneta and Alexander McQueen, have also appointed new designers. Richemont, too, has changed its top guard, promoting Nicolas Bos to the role of chief executive alongside new heads for top brands Cartier and Van Cleef & Arpels. Seven of the 16 brands in LVMH'’s fashion and leather goods division have changed their chief executive in the past two years — including the two most important, Louis Vuitton and Dior — while another four have new creative directors. The company has shuffled its execu- tive committee, appointing a new chief financial officer and group managing director, and handing plum jobs to the children of owner Bernard Arnault. The fear is that if the pace of renewal is too great, top talent will be denied the time to make their mark. Below, Sabato De Sarno, formerly Gucci’s design chief, and Delphine Arnault, CEO of Christian Dior Couture Jonn Ph lips/Victor Virgile/ Gamma-Rapho/ Dimitar Dil kofi/AFP/Getty Ss ; Further driving the revolving door was the switch by Bottega Veneta’s Mat- thieu Blazy to become creative director at Chanel, arguably the most coveted design position in the industry. He will take up the post later this year. While the changes at LVMH have largely been driven by succession plan- ning, with top management posts going to members of the Arnault family or executives a decade younger than their predecessors, analysts say that the upheaval at Kering has been led by mar- ket pressures. “Kering is [thinking] more short term than they should . . . because Gucci is going through tough times,” Rambourg said. “It’s a really insecure approach to managing brands.” Analysts and retailers worry that if the pace of change becomes too fast on the creative side, brands risk confusing customers or botching execution. While creative directors used to stay in post for a decade, in recent years the standard contract has become what the consultant Harvey called a “three plus two” — an initial three-year contract fol- lowed by atwo-year extension. “It’s very difficult in two years, [which is] four seasons — if you even get four,” she said. Sabato’s spell at Gucci was so brief that “there wasn’t time to. . . bake that creative vision”, she added. Harvey also noted how designers were often held accountable for poor performance, when it was management that failed to create a framework for them in which to succeed. In an industry driven by inventive- ness and fresh ideas, changes in creative leadership tend to come in waves. “These are cycles. The best fashions go out of fashion and must deteriorate. So we must prepare to have creative evolu- tions,” Kering chief executive Francois- Henri Pinault told reporters after this month’s results. However, the huge growth of top lux- ury labels over the past decade has ‘Tcant remember atime in the last 20 years where we ve seen this much change’ ‘Its areally insecure approach to managing brands’ increased the pressure on brands to rejuvenate, even amid a downturn. LVMH’s Dior quadrupled in size to more than €10bn in sales in that period, for example, according to HSBC esti- mates, but growth has since levelled off. “The numbers have gotten much big- ger,” said the chief commercial officer of a luxury retailer. “Coupled with big eco- nomic headwinds and unpredictability, it has pushed brands to move.” But bigger size means top labels are less inclined to take a risk on untested talent — often poaching the creative directors of other houses rather than investing in the next generation. “Luxury and fashion thrive on new- ness and creativity .. . so churning the same big names around the big brands is not necessarily very exciting or good for business,” the person added. The slowdown in the luxury industry following a period of high growth has been exacerbated by issues such as the effect of inflation on middle-class households, as well as problems in China’s housing market and its declin- ing stock market. The sector has lost about 50mn lux- ury consumers over the past two years, according to Bain, many of them young shoppers who no longer see value in lux- ury products. “I think it’s quite easy for the main luxury portfolio group to become a bit complacent when times are good,” said Harvey. “If you think about the last dec- ade, it seemed, on the surface, that lux- ury was impenetrable. It’s not.” Amid the whirlwind of top-level changes, the focus now shifts to execu- tion and the tricky balance between revealing a new vision for a brand with- out losing its way. “It depends how the transition is han- dled. If the brand has got really strong DNA, you see little or no change,” said the head of a large department store. “It's where people deviate from the DNA that they run into trouble.” 22 February/23 February 2025 oer Pee eee ee Pee Pee eee eee ee eee eee ee Pee ee ee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee Pe eee eee eee Cee eee ee TCC eee ee ee eee eee eee ee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee eee ee Tere T eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee ee ee eee ee eee ee eee ee ee Property Vatican failed by financier in London deal, court rules ALISTAIR GRAY — LONDON AMY KAZMIN — ROME The Vatican had reason to feel “utterly let down” by a financier involved in an ill-fated UK property deal on which the Roman Catholic Church lost more than £100mn, a London court has found. Raffaele Mincione had launched the action against the Holy See in an effort to clear his name following his Decem- ber 2023 conviction for embezzlement and money-laundering by the Vatican Tribunal. Mincione, who is appealing against his Vatican Tribunal conviction and associated five-and-a-half-year prison sentence, was a figure in the Vatican's acquisition of a former Harrods show- room in London. The church spent more than €350mn on the property between 2014 and 2018. The scheme’s backers intended to redevelop the site into flats but the project never obtained planning permission. In his civil action against the Holy See, filed in 2020 after the deal went sour, Mincione had sought several declarations from the High Court in London. They included a finding that he and his companies had acted in “good faith”. In his 50-page ruling yesterday, Mr Justice Robin Knowles granted the majority of 31 declarations sought by Mincione and rejected “particular alle- gations of dishonesty and particular allegations of conspiracy”. But he added that the Vatican — an institution run by clerics and theologians lacking any financial exper- tise — had reason to consider itself “utterly let down in its experience” with the financier. For Mincione to have stated that the value of the property was £275mn was “not frank” and “at least without elabo- ration, misleading”, the judge found. In a statement after yesterday's rul- ing, the Holy See said the English court's ruling represented “a significant vindi- cation” of the Church’s position that it had been wronged by a person in whom it had placed its faith. The businessman nevertheless claimed victory, saying the judge had found he had not been “dishonest” or taken part in “any conspiracy or fraud” as part of his dealings. “I hope the judgment can lay to rest once and for all claims that I am dishon- est, or a fraudster, or a criminal,” Min- cione said. The Holy See realised a loss of more than £100mn in 2022 when it sold the property in Chelsea to private equity group Bain Capital. The loss led to a broad review of the way the Catholic Church handles its finances. Mincione was one of seven defend- ants — including one of the Vatican’s most powerful former officials, Cardinal Giovanni Angelo Becciu — convicted in 2023 by the Vatican court for their roles in the property deal. The unprecedented criminal convic- tion of a cardinal and others involved in the deal was seen as part of Pope Fran- cis’s attempt to bring greater accounta- bility to the Church and improve the management of its finances. Mincione’s London lawsuit was ini- tially filed in 2020, prior to the Vatican trial, as Church authorities were carry- ing out their own investigation into the vexed deal and what had gone on. Pope Francis’s chief of staff, Arch- bishop Edgar Pefia Parra, testified dur- ing the civil trial last July. ransport. Private planes VistaJet cash reserves drop as super-rich cut their advance flight bookings Subscription service flying hours down 10.5% as indebted operator seeks fresh financing
