METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: RAPHAEL MINDER AND NATALIA SAWKA WARSAW Poland’s nationalist opposition has amplified its conflic...
ID: 108

CONTENT:
RAPHAEL MINDER AND NATALIA SAWKA WARSAW Poland’s nationalist opposition has amplified its conflict with the pro-EU government led by Donald Tusk, with each side accusing the other of attempting to skew the results of upcoming presidential elections. Senior politicians in the ultraconserva- tive Law and Justice (PiS) party have accused the government of planning to interfere in the race, with the PiS-domi- nated constitutional tribunal launching an investigation into Tusk and his min- isters over an alleged coup plot. Tusk officials, meanwhile, have warned that PiS-appointed judges could annul the result of the election if their preferred candidate does not win. Rafat Trzaskowski, Warsaw mayor and presidential candidate of Tusk’s Civic Platform party, is the frontrunner for the May election but one recent opinion poll showed that PiS candidate Karol Nawrocki could narrowly win a run-off. Radostaw Sikorski, foreign minister, last week warned that judges could potentially emulate Romania’s constitu- tional court in cancelling the election, as a Bucharest court did last year over alleged Russian meddling. “We have the Romanian problem even more than some people think,” Sikorski told broadcaster Polsat, warn- ing that the country was “not prepared” to handle such a situation. Bogdan Swieczkowski, the president of the constitutional court, this month announced an investigation into Tusk and his partners for allegedly preparing a coup d‘état and running an “organised crime group”. The judge, who was a sen- ior prosecutor when PiS was in power, provided no evidence for his claims. Tusk called the probe “grotesque” and “dangerous”. The justice minister sus- pended the prosecutor appointed by Swieczkowski to investigate the alleged plot. President Andrzej Duda, a PiS nomi- nee who appointed Swieczkowski in December, said voters might need to take to the streets to demonstrate against “manipulated” results of the election. “Is it possible that today elec- tions in individual countries — seem- ingly democratic — can only be won by those who are accepted in Brussels? I have this impression and I do not like it very much,” Duda said. PiS has recently been emboldened by the administration of Donald Trump after US vice-president JD Vance criti- cised Europe for allegedly cracking down on rightwing voices and going “as far” as cancelling elections. Winning the presidential election in May is key for Tusk to unlock his coali- tion’s reform agenda, including an over- haul of the judiciary. Since taking office in 2023, his efforts have been stalled by PiS with the help of Duda and PiS-ap- pointed judges. PiS has also accused the government of illegally withholding party funding to scupper Nawrocki'’s campaign. The elec- toral commission — which has a narrow majority of members aligned with Tusk’s coalition — withheld part of the PiS state funding after finding irregular- ities in past campaign spending. SEE EEE EEE Ee EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EE EERE Ee EEE EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EE Ee EEE EERE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EERE EEE EEE Ee EERE EEE EEE EE EERE EEE EEE Ee EERE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EE EEE TERE EEE ER EHH RHEE ER EE EE SEER EERE EEE EE EEE EEE ETT EET EET EET EERE ETE ETE EEE EEE TERETE EEE ET EEE EET EEE ET TEETER ET TEETER EEE EEE EEE EERE EET EET EEE TET ET HTT TTT TTT TT TEER OTE CEE EE EERE EERE ERE REET EERE REE OER EE REE EERE REE ERE OEE EERE EET TT Ee eee Tourism Travel hotspots look to copy Venice visitor fee ERI SUGIURA — LONDON Travel hotspots around the world are likely to follow Venice in charging entry fees to tourists who often rile locals by driving up prices, the head of one of the world’s leading tourism associations has said. Even as tourism helps drive a growth surge in southern European economies, last summer locals took to the streets across the region to voice their anger about overcrowding. Venice began charging day-trippers €5 fees during peak days, and is expand- ing the programme this year. The policy should be used as a “last recourse” alongside a radical shift of industry priorities away from boosting visitor numbers, to focus instead on ensuring locals do not see tourists as a “burden and impediment”, said Don Welsh, chief executive of Washington- based Destinations International. “I would hate to advocate for it, but if all other areas are exhausted, then I think the head tax has to be considered,” Welsh, who represents tourism organi- sations from nearly 800 destinations, told the Financial Times. Venice’s fee system, which slightly reduced visitor numbers and eased temporary bridge closures, has caught the eye of other hotspots, said deputy mayor Simone Venturini. “We are receiving a lot of questions from all the cities in the world, from Kyoto to Charleston,” he said. “They are curious to know how we are managing this.” Local discontent is a quandary for policymakers on a continent desperate for economic growth that was flooded by arecord 747mn international tourist arrivals in 2024. Venice is charging day-trippers a €5 fee during peak visitor days In Spain, for example, tourism makes up acritical 12.3 per cent of GDP, but last summer residents in Barcelona took to squirting diners in tourist areas with water pistols. “You're seeing a lot more alignment between city government and the chambers of commerce to figure out what is the ideal visitation mix for that community,” Welsh said. Authorities have responded to pro- testers’ complaints about housing shortages, high rents and decaying infrastructure by cracking down on short-term lets, banning entry to certain areas and capping overall visitor num- bers. Barcelona last year vowed to close all of its Airbnb-style apartments by 2028, while Pompeii said it would limit the number of daily visitors to its archeolog- ical site to 20,000 a day. Greece is introducing a fee of up to €20 for cruise ship passengers to the popular islands Santorini and Mykonos. Venetians initially feared their fee would encourage locals to treat their city as an “amusement park”, but are now asking the city council if the fee could be applied during this month’s Carnival event, Venturini said. * FT Weekend
