METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: CARRION CROW hallucination. Marguerite thinks often of someone named Alouette, whom Parry describ...
ID: 147

CONTENT:
CARRION CROW hallucination. Marguerite thinks often of someone named Alouette, whom Parry describes in avian metaphors (“Alouette made her own money; she shook it from her wings every evening”; “They would go about their days with- out a concern ... raising their baby birds”) to the extent that you wonder if Marguerite is dreaming up the crow as some kind of illusory lover. What could lead a mother to treat her daughter with such cruelty? Parry unfurls a history of shameful family misdemeanours involving both Cécile’s father and her husband, incidents that left Cécile alone with three children before the age of 30 and drove her to cut her wrists. A doctor advised that she stay inside, in a manner that mir- rors Marguerite’s imprisonment: “She was confined for one year. It was for her own good.” With Marguerite and Cécile — two maddened and maddening, yet also quite sympathetic female characters — Parry shows us how trauma can be inherited, and that women themselves can be complicit in handing down the worst of the patriarchy. For a novel so full of unanticipated turns, its final scene feels disappoint- ingly generic, full of just the kind of action you'd expect in a story that enjoys bird metaphors. Otherwise Carrion Crow is a worthy entrant into the contemporary gothic hall of fame — a natural cousin to Jean Rhys’s Wide Sargasso Sea, with the femi- nist body horror that has been spear- headed in recent years by authors such as Eliza Clark. I’m not sure the pure rancidness of this book will ever totally leave me. An intimate proposition Tash Aw teases out themes of identity and migration in this sparely written novel set in Malaysia. By Jon Day ash Aw went to university in Britain and has spent much of his adult life in the UK, France and Germany, but most of his fiction has been set in and around Malaysia, where he grew up. His debut, The Harmony Silk Factory (2005), was abouta textile entre- preneur in British-occupied Malaya between the wars. Map of the Invisible World (2009) told the story of two broth- ers adopted into different families — one in Malaysia, the other Indonesia. The South is a more intimate proposi- tion, even if — as the first instalment ofa proposed quartet — it promises to end up being bigger in scope than anything Aw has written before. It’s set in Malay- sia in 1997, and Jay Lim and his family — father Jack, sisters Yin and Lina and mother Sui — have gone south for the holidays to stay on the “twenty hectares of scrubby jungle and farmland” bought by Jack’s father years before. Now the old man has died, and the family have returned for some sort of reckoning. The farm is managed by Fong, Jack’s illegitimate half-brother, who lives there with his teenage son Chuan. But it is in a poor state, and Fong struggles to make it pay. Year after year, the crops fail. There are floods and fires. A planta- tion of symbolically laden tamarind trees is dying. At 19, Chuan is caught on the cusp of manhood, just as he is caught between The South by Tash Aw Fourth Estate £16.99 304 pages/Farrar, Straus and Giroux $28, 288 pages worlds: though he works on the farm, he also has ajob ina7-Eleven in the nearby city, and dreams of escaping further afield. Chuan and Jay strike up a friend- ship that soon becomes sexual. Their relationship forms the heart of the book, and it is told beautifully: a slow, steady accretion of secret touches, hid- den glances, unapologetic desire. Various family tensions are hung around this central spine. Jack, bookish, authoritarian, aspirationally middle class, has an uneasy relationship with his country wife Sui, and his half- brother, who is worried about what will happen to his only son. Chapters are alternately narrated by Jay in the first person and by a close third-person nar- rator which, it emerges, is Jay looking back from some point in the future (from when, one imagines, this will become clear later in the quartet). Identity and self-invention have loomed large in most of Aw’s previous novels. In The South identities are shown to be both contested and contestable. Jack, a teacher, is ostracised by his col- leagues for his Chinese ethnicity; Yin has a secret Malay boyfriend whom, even though he is the “modern kind, quite open-minded of course”, she still worries what her parents will think of. Then there is Jay’s sexual identity, a secret, delicate thing that can’t be con- fronted directly. Migration and belonging are another of the book’s lightly worn themes. Fong became a single dad after his wife went to Singapore for a job and never returned; Chuan has dreams of follow- ing in her footsteps. Aw has visited the territory of exile before, in Five Star Billionaire (2013) in which four ambi- tious Malaysian expats tried to make a life for themselves in Shanghai, and it’s easy to imagine where Chuan and Jay might end up. The prose is spare and unadorned, but it sometimes feels slightly under- worked. Near the end of the novel there are some curious repetitions. For exam- ple: “This place offers respite,” Jay thinks about a patch of ground near his school where the misfits hang out, “not just to me but to others like me.” Then, on the next page: “This is a place that people escape to, in search of brief res- pite.” Later, when Lina is about to leave the farm for the north, Jay is described as having “suggested going for a swim in the lake before she left but she said there was no point in wasting time”. When he leaves, a few pages later, he repeats the idea almost verbatim. I couldn’t work out if these repetitions were there to suggest a kind of writerly equivocation — the work of a mind trying out the same thought in different ways, drafting, editing, creat- ing a story — or whether they just reflect a lack of care. Perhaps this will become clear across the quartet, but in The South questions like this feel frustratingly unresolved. 22 February/23 February 2025 ew pictures have had the social and political impact of those collected in Ernest Cole’s 1967 classic of photojournalism, House of Bondage, which chronicled with rare diligence the atroc- ities committed under South Africa’s apartheid regime in the 1960s. Cole, born in a Transvaal township in 1940, discovered his vocation when working as a darkroom assistant after leaving school. His ambition at the same time was simple and overwhelming: “I knew then what I must do,” he wrote in the wake of his first work experience. “I would do a book of photographs to show the world what the white South African had done tothe black.” House of Bondage contained images that continue to be among the most familiar depictions of South Africa’s ignoble past: the row of young Black miners, naked, with hands held high in the air, waiting to be medically exam- ined before being taken to work; the small schoolboy crouching painfully on the ground, pencil in hand, rapt in concentration, trying to ignore the rivu- lets of sweat on his temples as he follows his lesson. Cole’s technique for taking photo- graphs was, by necessity, furtive and swift. He became used to clicking the shutter with the camera by his side, moving quickly to avoid suspicion. He established himself as one of the country’s first Black freelance pho- tographers, selling his work to progres- sive domestic publications and to the Associated Press. By the time House of Bondage was pub- lished, however, Cole had been forced to leave South Africa and had moved to New York, where he started to work for the Magnum agency. He made several trips to Europe before returning to the US, where he struggled to continue with his career. He died, aged 49, in 1990, unrecognised and destitute. The Ernest Cole story went largely untold in the succeeding decades until the discovery of a cache of 60,000 lost negatives in safe-deposit boxes in a Swedish bank. These shed light on the details of Cole’s later life, as well as unearthing extra material from his years in South Africa. The revival of interest prompted Cole’s estate to get in touch with the Haitian filmmaker Raoul Peck, asking whether he would consider making a documentary on the photographer. The result is Ernest Cole: Lost & Found, a film two years in the making, which the 71-year-old director hopes will spark the interest of a new generation. The film won the L’Oeil d’Or prize for best documentary at last year’s Cannes Film Festival. The movie is a candid and mov- ing account of Cole’s life and work, but also a broader examination of the pain of exile, a subject with which Peck him- self is all too familiar. He was in his teens when he first encountered Cole’s photographs, having moved to Berlin at the beginning of the 1970s to complete his education. His life up to that point had already been nomadic and turbulent, fleeing his homeland’s dictatorship with his family Raoul Peck FT Weekend — i at Arts Arts The Haitian filmmaker tells Peter Aspden about his affinity for the pathbreaking South African photographer Ernest Cole to settle in freshly independent Congo when he was eight, and later going to France, via a brief spell in New York, to finish high school. But it was Berlin, he says today, that “liberated” him. “It was the perfect city. A city of asylum, highly politicised. Most of the student leaders there had been in prison.” Cole’s photographs, the first to depict apartheid’s methods with such clarity, were being widely circu- lated and discussed. “We all knew those pictures — they were iconic,” Peck tells me in his studio in central Paris. “But we did not know who they were by. We didn't really care. Those photographs were not about art- istry, they were about fighting.” It was much later, he says, that he deepened his knowledge of Cole, after rereading the annotations of House of Above left: Raoul Peck, photographed for the FT by Cédrine Scheidig Photographs by Ernest Cole, clockwise from main: New York, 1971; self- portrait, 1967; a train at Johannesburg station, South Africa, 1960s Ernest Cole/Magnum Photos Bondage. “It was then I understood the power of those texts, and the way he analysed things,” says Peck. “I saw how precise he was, how sharp and how prescient.” In his film, Peck has used only Cole’s words, layered over those powerful images, to tell his story. He says the first third of the film uses the photographer's own writings, while the rest comes from new interviews with people who knew him, which Peck has turned into a first- person narrative. “We talked to about 80 people: there was a neighbour who he had tea with every afternoon, and we found a woman who talked to him on the phone every day when he was in hospital, when he talked about his darkest thoughts, his thoughts about suicide,” Peck says. “But the words [in the film], they are his words; they are not invented. The aim of the film was to let Ernest Cole gain power over his own story.” The movie casts light on Cole’s unhappy New York years, which Peck says are misunderstood by many west- ern observers. “They say he underwent some kind of pathological change or [suffered from] depression, or became crazy, without explaining anything. But I know what it is to be isolated, to be in exile, I know what it is to be seen only through the colour of your skin.” Peck says Cole’s professional life was stymied by being stereotyped, con- stantly commissioned to take photo- graphs of the racial struggles in the US. He quotes from a letter Cole wrote in 1968, just a couple of years after his arrival: “Exposing truth at whatever cost is one thing, but having to live a lifetime of being a chronicler of misery and injustice and callousness is another. The total man does not live one experience.” “He had much bigger ambitions than that,” says Peck. “He never saw himself as this little [Cole was around 5ft tall] Black photographer. No! His model was [Henri] Cartier-Bresson! Who, by the way, travelled around the whole world, photographing everyone.” Cole’s fresh immersion in the world from which he had just escaped was a shock from which he never recovered. I ask if Cole’s fate was inevitable, or if he could somehow have changed the course of his career. “It was not a matter of choice,” Peck says firmly. “You don’t have a catalogue to choose your life. Life is not like that. You follow your current fight. He followed a path which took him to New York. He had no clue that he 13 i r eee oe es © OF em © @ eo Sew « would find all those closed doors.” The cache of photographs found in Sweden in 2017, and offered to the Cole family trust by the Hasselblad Founda- tion and the Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken, where, it is claimed, they had been stored in a safe-deposit box since 1972 (precise details of how they ended up there remain opaque) offered another twist for Peck’s film. “It is good to have this thriller element to the story,” he says. “I need a lot of components to start a film — it can’t just be historical or political, it has to be personal. There needs to be an organic connection. “But it was extraordinary to have a trove of so many photos,” he continues. “That was a feast for me. The difficulty was in not getting lost in them.” Peck’s politically charged filmmaking — past successes include two films on the Congolese leader Patrice Lumumba, 2016's I Am Not Your Negro on James Baldwin, and 2021's HBO four-part doc- umentary series on colonialism, Exter- minate All the Brutes — itself takes a per- haps unexpected turn with his next project, on George Orwell. Peck declines to tell me anything about it, but when I suggest that it will surely be of great interest to British viewers, he corrects me. “It is for the planet. We are living in an Orwellian world,” he says. We return briefly to his formative years in Berlin and he reminisces, fondly but without sentiment: “Berlin was more open to me, more open to culture. At that stage, you are looking for places where there is no limit. I was never hypnotised by the so-called free world. Those were propaganda words to me.” ‘Ernest Cole: Lost & Found’ is in UK cinemas from March 7 Ce EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EE EEE EEE EERE EERE TE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EERE EEE EERE ES EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EERE EERE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EERE EERE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE REE EEE EEE EE EERE EE EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE EES EERE EEE EERE EE EERE EERE EE EERE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EE EEE EERE EEE EE EERE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EERE EERE EERE ee See e PPC e eee ee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee ee ee ee eee eee eee ee ee eee ee ee eee eee eee ee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee ee ee ee eee eee ee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee ee oe ee eee eee ee ee ee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee Pee e eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee ee ee eee ee eee ee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee Cee ee eee eee eee Cee ee eee eee eee Cee ee ee eee ee eee Coe eee eee eee ees Ce eee ee eee eee eee eee ee eee ee ee eee eee Te ee eee eee ee eee ee Te eee eT ee eee ee eee eT eee eee eee eee eee eee eee Pee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee) Ce eee eee eee eee oe eee eee ee eee ee Ce eee eee ee ee ee ee ee eee eee eee ee ee eee ee ee eee ee Pee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee eee ee Tee ee ee eee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee ee eee eee ee eee ee ee ee ee Review THEATRE Much Ado About Nothing Theatre Royal, Drury Lane wk kk “We are the only love-gods”, declares Don Pedro to Claudio and Leonato — with some flourish — in this effervescent staging of Much Ado About Nothing. Correction, gentlemen. I think you'll find Jamie Lloyd, who directed this glorious production of Shakespeare's romcom, is the Cupid of the moment. From start to finish, the show is a joy: a love song to the exhilaration, pain and giddy nonsense of passion, with Tom Hiddleston and Hayley Atwell absolutely acing it at the helm. Lloyd unclips the play from its Italian setting and styles it as a kind of 90s rave with its own lovestruck landscape (designed by Soutra Gilmour). Rosy confetti rains down on the performers, settling into sweet pink drifts across the stage; a giant inflatable heart rises above the action like a moon; the drama is punctuated by serious consumption of shots, delirious dancing to club hits and Mason Alexander Park singing soulful covers. Gone is the war — here the men strut into the arena to the Beastie Boys’ “(You Gotta) Fight for Your Right (To Party!)”. Gone, too, is the subplot involving the officious officer-of-the- law Dogberry, which makes for a rather abrupt resolution of the drama. We lose, too, the potential social commentary embedded in the tale. But the result is a fleet, focused and very funny production that, amid all the riotous partying, charts beautifully the play’s soaring highs and darker depths. At its heart is the “merry war” between Beatrice and Benedick, the Hayley Atwell and Tom Hiddleston as Beatrice and Benedick in ‘Much Ado About Nothing’ — marc Brenner couple who protest their loathing of each other, all the while yearning for connection. Atwell and Hiddleston are superb, throwing some fabulous shapes and bringing pinpoint timing to their characters’ quicksilver wit, but also picking their way poignantly through the couple’s warring emotions. Hiddleston’s Benedick is impishly charming, savouring his own waggishness, flirting with the audience — “Certain I am loved of all ladies”, he says, with a saucy wink at the stalls — and rolling beneath piles of confetti as he attempts to conceal himself to overhear the conspirators. But he’s also touching in his astonishment that Beatrice may care for him — “Love me?” he whispers. “Why?” — and quietly sincere in his resolution to avenge Claudio’s wronging of Hero. Atwell responds with a Beatrice of mercurial intelligence and emotional truth. In a brilliant move, she doesn’t hide to eavesdrop on her fate but stands, motionless, her conflicting feelings scudding across her face. Tiny shifts in her voice and body language betray the hurt within and the way she projects insouciant wit to protect her heart. The irony is that, beneath their prickly exteriors, these two care deeply for one another, whereas love’s young dream, in the shape of the impetuous Claudio (James Phoon) and eager Hero (Mara Huf), evaporates at the first hurdle. Claudio’s cruel jilting of Hero is a terrible moment, Shakespeare reminding you that, banter aside, mistrust between men and women can have devastating consequences. Lloyd manages the shift skilfully: there’s a sudden iciness and, for the first time, the confetti stops falling. And there are many thorns among these roses: we notice Gerald Kyd’s Prince, drowning loneliness in drink, and Tim Steed as his “villainous” brother, playing up to the role expected. Heartbreak, hope, healing — it’s all here in this gorgeous, big- hearted production. Sarah Hemming To April 5, lwtheatres.co.uk 14 FT Weekend 22 February/23 February 2025
