METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: FINANCIAL TIMES 330 Hudson Street, New York, NY 10013 Good Friday, Independence Day, Thanksgiving...
ID: 106

CONTENT:
FINANCIAL TIMES 330 Hudson Street, New York, NY 10013 Good Friday, Independence Day, Thanksgiving, the day after Thanksgiving, Christmas Day and the day after Christmas Day. Subscriptions and Customer Service Tel: 21800 428 BOBS US subscription rates, 1 year $406. Periodicals postage paid at New York, NY and at additional wuscitculationa ft com ult com/subsusa mailing offices; Post-Master. Send address changes Advertising to FT. Publications inc. PO Box 469, Newburgh, NY Tel: +1 917 5515040 12551; USPS number, 190640; ISSN# 0884-6782. usads@ftcom Letters to the editor © Copyright The Financial Times Limited 2025. letterseditor@itcom All rights reserved. Executive appointments Reproduction of the contents of this newspaper in wow exec-appointments. com any manner is not permitted without the publisher's prior consent. ‘Financial Times’ and ‘FT’ are Published by registered trade marks of The Financial Times FT. Publications Inc. 330 Hudson St, New York, NY 10013, USA; Tel: 21. 977-551-5000: Editor: Roula Khalaf Limited. The Financial Times and its journalism are subject to a self-regulation regime under the FT Editorial Code of Practice: taclitnriatens! Reprints are available of any FT article with your company logo or contact details inserted if required (minimum order 100 copies). One-off copyright licences for reproduction of FT articles are also available. For both services phone +44 20 7873 4816, or alternatively, email syrdicaton@f-com Printed by Blue Island Newspaper Printing, Harvey, IL Evergreen Printing Company, Bellmawr, NJ Bay Area Production Services, Fremont, CA Published daily except Sundays, New Year's Day, The European Space Agency is prepar- ing for potential cancellation by US President Donald Trump of key ele- ments of the Artemis Moon pro- gramme, the vehicle for many of Europe's lunar ambitions. Daniel Neuenschwander, the ESA’s head of robotic and human exploration, said the US was a crucial partner for Europe in space exploration but it was obvious there were “changes taking place on the US side”. He said: “We will sit with our Nasa counterparts and assess what it means for our co-operation . . . I’m aware that these discussions may become more transactional than in the past. Europe will be prepared.” The comments come as members of Elon Musk’s team from the so-called Department of Government Efficiency (Doge) have begun to review spending at Nasa, including the US space agency's near-$100bn Artemis programme that aims to beat China in returning humans to the Moon. Last week Boeing told staff that 200 Angeles last summer and has become a role model for distressed friends back home. “They say: Trump was elected. It is a shit-show in this country. I want to leave. How did you doit?” Knowledge of Spain, however, remains patchy. Jeremy Scheck, 24, a cookbook author who moved to Madrid from New York last year, said: “Outside of that well-travelled, coastal bubble, there is still a lot of tropes from Mexican jobs could be cut as a result of expected changes to the over-budget Space Launch System rocket, the primary launch vehicle for Artemis missions. The Lunar Gateway, a space station designed to orbit the Moon and a flag- ship for international collaboration in Artemis, also looks vulnerable, accord- ing to a former Nasa official who spoke on condition of anonymity. Many major components on Gateway are being supplied by Europe, Japan, Canada and the United Arab Emirates. “As you look at this administration it is easy to see why and how Gateway could be in jeopardy,’ said the former official. ESA officials met the agency’s mem- ber states last week to discuss the situa- tion ahead of a ministerial meeting in November, at which budgets for the next three years will be decided. Alternatives could include increased collaboration with India, which wants to land astronauts on the Moon by 2040, or accelerating plans for European robotic explorers on the lunar surface. Europe is heavily reliant on the Artemis programme to help fulfil its lunar ambitions. In the next three-year funding round, lunar programmes are = = £ culture that are projected on to Spanish culture. I always get questions like: is Spanish food spicy?” For many years, if Spain brought any city to mind it was Barcelona, but anti- tourism protests in the Catalan city last year dented its allure. The new magnet is Madrid, whose metropolitan area is home to nearly 7mn. Last year, thanks to more flight connections and market- ing by the regional government, more than 1mn US visitors came to the city — twice the number of British arrivals. New residents say they treasure how Madrid combines the buzz of a big city with a feeling of cosiness. They relish its walkability, architecture and the absence of active shooter drills at their kids’ schools. They love Spaniards for being warm and chatty but not, as one said, “in your business”. There is even a Hollywood contin- gent: Richard Gere and Amber Heard have both made the city their home. For expected to represent the largest share of the requested exploration budget. The ESA is supplying the service mod- ule for the Orion crew capsule to be launched on the SLS, as well as key habi- tation elements of the Gateway. In return, it was expecting Nasa to fly three European astronauts to the Gateway. The Gateway has come in for criticism in the US from former Nasa chiefs and even from Apollo 11 astronaut Buzz Aldrin. Critics have questioned the need for a space station orbiting the Moon, given Musk has said his giant Starship rocket will be designed to stay in lunar Lunar View is part of the Gateway project that appears vulnerable would-be immigrants a new path opened up with the digital nomad visa, which provides residency to non-EU cit- izens who work from home for a non- Spanish entity. They also need an annual income of at least €33,000. In 2023, the visa’s first year, Spain issued more than 9,500 to people froma range of countries. Many were for US west coast software engineers, but they have also gone to government contrac- tors, accountants and people such as Scheck, who is also a food influencer on social media. Contemplating events back home, he said: “It definitely feels like a relief to be a little farther removed from the daily highs and lows.” Kai Bryant, head of Blueprint Spain, a relocation agency, said he was fielding inquiries from Americans near the end of their working lives who were worried about the US healthcare system and their pensions. “They are saying: I do not feel comfortable retiring in the US. What are my options?” he said. “Some are a little misguided and asking if they can apply for asylum. But it just shows the desperation.” Spain’s golden visa programme, which is available to anyone who invests €500,000 in property, has been popular with Americans approaching retire- ment, said Alena Lesina, US head of Astons, an immigration adviser. But in April it will close to new applicants. There is an everyday affluence in parts of the US that becomes eye-pop- ping when transposed to Spain. The average annual salary in the Madrid region is about €32,000. Gonzalez, the lawyer, said his clients generally earn between $120,000 and $200,000. Those selling assets pur- chased 10 or 20 years ago, be they Cali- fornia mansions or Amazon or Nvidia stock, come with millions in the bank. Every new country brings its chal- lenges, though. Americans marvel at Madrid’s late meal times and the strict opinions on what should be consumed when. “I love the vermouth here, but if I order it when it is not just prior to dinner Iget these looks,” said Templeton. Some also miss the comforts and modernity of home. “When we first came here, I felt like I came from the future,” said Lee. “In the future we have pads to unlock our door, instead of these keys that look like they are for a castle.” FE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EERE EE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE ETRE TE EEE EEE EEE EERE EE EEE EE EERE EEE EE EERE ETE EERE EEE EERE EEE EE TEETER OEE EEE ETE EEE EEE Ee PETER E EET EERE EEE EEE ET HEE ETRE EEE ET TERETE HET ETH OER THEE eE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EHO HEE EE REET EEHT EEE E EET T ET e CEE EEE TT E EHR RET EEEe ET EEE EET E ERT TET ET ETE EEE EEE E EEE H EEE EEE EEE EET TEETER Tee eee CEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE Te TE Te Ee Te EE Ee TT ET ET TT ee ee orbit for several months at a time. “With Starship, it’s questionable whether it is needed,” the former official said. Yet Starship is not ready to fly to the Moon, and is even further from carrying crew. “There are those who say SLS and Orion are the only realistic chance to get there before the Chinese,” the former Nasa official said. The SLS is several years late and con- siderably over budget: it is expected to cost $23bn to 2028. Boeing’s manage- ment of the programmes has been criti- cised by the US government auditor, which has estimated that a single launch could cost more than $4bn. One option would be to fund only those SLS missions already contracted, the former official said. Nasa told the Financial Times that international partnerships remained “an important part of the Artemis cam- paign”. Both the International Space Station and Gateway had been enabled by investments from international part- nerships, the agency said. “These part- nerships strengthen US global leader- ship in exploration and support Ameri- can industry by creating opportunities for innovation and expansion.” 22 February/23 February 2025 * FT Weekend
