METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: EEE OEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EERE EEE REE EEE EEE EERE EERE EES EERE EEE REE EERE EERE EEE EERE...
ID: 133

CONTENT:
EEE OEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EERE EEE REE EEE EEE EERE EERE EES EERE EEE REE EERE EERE EEE EERE ERE EEEEEEE EEE E EE EERE E EERE EEE EERE EEE CERES EERE EERE EEE EEE CEE EEE EEE BEER EEE EERE EEE EEE ERE EE EERE EERE EERE EEE EE OEE EERE EEE EERE EERE EERE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE SERRE EERE EEE EE EEE EERE EEE EE OEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE SEER E EEE EERE EE EERE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EERE EERE EEE EEE CREE E EEE EERE EEE CEE EEE EERE EE ERR EEE EERE EES REE EERE EEE EE EERE EERE RHEE EEE EEE PEE EERE EEE Ee EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE BREE EE EEE EEE EEE REE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EERE EE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EE EERE EE EEE EEE EE EE EERE EE EEE EEE RHEE EEE EEEEEAEEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EE EEE EERE EEE EERE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EERE EE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE E EERE EEE EEE REE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEEEE EE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE ERE EEE BEER EEE EE EEE EE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE HEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE SEE EEE EEE ETE EEE EET OE ERTS E EE EEE EEE EEE TERETE EEE ETE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE TERETE EERE EE EERE EE EERE EEE EEE TEETER EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE E EEE EET EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE ETE EEE EEE ETE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EERE TEETER EEE EEE EEE EEE EES EE EEE EERE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE REE EE TEE EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE TEETER EEE EERE EERE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EERE EEE TERETE HT E RE RRO EE For those in peril There is a story I read about five years ago that still haunts me. Every now and then it pops into my head, almost out of the blue, and I find myself thinking how it’s one of the best contemporary short works of fiction I have ever read. It’s called “Night Garden” and it’s by the award-winning here because when I researched the etymology of the word “danger” I learnt that one origin was from the mid-13th-century Anglo-French word “daunger”, meaning “arrogance, insolence”. It was an interesting reminder that danger and arrogance are often related. Icarus’s belief in his own ability to soar alone without heeding limitations results in his demise. But in Chagall’s portrayal, Icarus seems to be falling into a village where a crowd has assembled. His hubris is not just a danger to himself but to an entire community. We often just think of arrogance as something we can dismiss if it relates to another person, but history teaches us that author Shruti Swamy. individuals with an inflated sense of The story is about an Indian woman power and disregard for limitations named Vijji, who starts to make can prove dangerous not just for a dinner and then hears an unfamiliar sound from her dog, Neela. She looks out of the kitchen window to see Neela, “friendly . . . black and sweet and foxlike”, in a stand-off with a cobra, “head raised, the hood fanned out”. The dog had stopped the snake from trying to enter the house but was now caught in this predicament. Vijji calls a doctor, who advises her not to do anything but watch, and to make sure that no one comes into or leaves the house until the snake is gone, village but an entire planet of people. There is something calming and beautiful about Winslow Homer’s late 19th-century painting “Danger”. It is a seascape painting in a palette of greys, blues and reddish browns. It’s a violently windy day and the waves are foaming white and crashing against each other as two women hold hands trying to make their way along the shore. By their modest dress it seems that the women were not prepared for otherwise the dog will break his the weather, and as the lone figures on concentration and probably be killed. the canvas it is as if they are pitted For the rest of the story we keep against the threatening atmosphere vigil with the woman as she watches the slight dance between the two animals, the way fear passes between them, the way the upper hand can shift, not knowing until the end who will survive. The first time I read the story I was moved to tears, both by the dog’s courage to do whatever was necessary to protect his home and his owner, and by Vijji’s powerlessness to do anything but sit with her terror and Winslow Homer’s ‘Danger’ (1883-87) — Hertage images/Getty images allowed ourselves to slip into a situation that is unsafe, either physically or emotionally. There’s a kind of danger that comes seemingly from nowhere. But does it always catch us by surprise, or do we sometimes choose to deny our instincts, lessen our attention, or even simply ignore way in. It’s an image that I find both arresting and terrifying. Snakes have a range of symbolic meanings across cultures, including positive spiritual representations of transformation and rebirth. But most people in the west are conditioned to see them as symbolic of evil, creatures attending to things that need our care, especially in the places we are most tempted to get comfortable. Or when we turn a blind eye to any possible warning signs. Perhaps a door was unattended or left open in this home, allowing the snake to get in. Some boundary line was crossed that should that now surrounds them. I was really drawn to this work because it speaks to me of how dangerous situations, whether man- made or the result of natural causes, are also an inevitable part of a life’s journey. We all find ourselves at some point caught in scenarios we may never have envisioned for ourselves or our families, or even our communities. But in this painting, the women don’t stop moving forward. her hope. This past week I have been what is right in front of us? that we should distance ourselves have been better guarded. They lock hands and face the thinking about the idea of how to from. I was struck by this painting conditions together. That is part of navigate life during a time in which we The early 20th-century French The Russian-born painter Marc what makes it such a beautiful image, can feel as if we are, collectively, ricocheting between anger, fear, determination and resolute courage. And “Night Garden” again came unbidden into my head, so I decided to reread it. This time, I found myself reflecting on the idea of enemies. Not a topic I consider often at all. I thought about painter Pierre Roy is not often credited alongside the better-known surrealist artists, but his work is recognised for its strange and unsettling juxtapositions. His painting “Danger on the Stairs” (c1927), one of his best- known works, depicts an apartment stairwell with marbled walls, a pair of closed wooden doors and a banister How can we navigate life when we feel as if we are ricocheting between anger, fear and resolute courage? because it made me think about how Chagall painted “The Fall of Icarus” in 1975, towards the end of his long life. Chagall had experienced turmoil and trauma, including fleeing Nazi- occupied France for the US in 1941, and the premature death of his beloved wife Bella a few years later. In this colourful painting, a winged figure is tumbling through the sky on to a crowd and I believe an important one for this theme. I think back to Shruti Swamy’s short story and how, even though Vijji was helpless as Neela faced the cobra, she stood watch with him. And that maybe her presence was part of what enabled Neela to stand firm. Whatever may come our way, I Neela’s perception of danger, and his that angles its way along the left side of | danger can get close to us when we of people in a village. This is Chagall’s hope we can find and also become decision to stand in its way. We think the canvas. In the centre of the least expect it. Our home, whatever rendition of the Greek myth of Icarus, those willing to walk forward of animals as being instinctual rather painting is a long, thick-bodied snake, that means to us, is the place we are whose father Daedalus made wings of together, willing to stand vigil when than rational, but it did make me wonder about how we perceive danger in our midst. Not the obvious kind, like a fire or some sort of attack, but slithering down the stairs and on to the landing. The snake's tongue flicks out and its raised head casts a shadow on the floor. The sparseness of the supposed to feel most safe. When and how does danger enter our lives seemingly without our knowledge? I am reading this painting feathers and wax so that he and his son could escape Crete. Icarus was warned not to fly too close to the sun but, once in the air, was overcome by the feeling others are on the frontline. The presence of danger doesn’t mean it can’t be overcome. More than anything it means we need to figure the quiet kind, such as when someone stairwell gives the effect of an almost metaphorically, thinking about how a of power and speed and flew high out how to face these challenges and with nefarious intentions slowly audible silence and heightens the threat can creep into our liveswhen we | enough that his wings melted and he adversities together. worms their way into your trust, or sense that no one in the building is stop paying attention to our immediate | fell to his death. when we realise too late that we’ve aware of what danger has found its surroundings. Or when we stop I have included Chagall’s painting enuma.okoro@ft.com They quit! Continue m 1 the company was a bad employer. Many customers — about half are in their twenties and thirties, according to the employment-focused research group Mynavi — describe an intense relief from handing over to a proxy. Maho, a proxy user now working as an estate agent in Yokohama, says: “The whole reason I wanted to leave was because my boss was constantly yelling at every small mistake. And that was when I was trying to do everything right. The idea of saying I wanted to resign was too scary. I wanted to quit within a month of joining the company but I made it to nearly nine months before using a proxy. The service cost the same as two tickets to Tokyo Dis- ney, but it made me feel so good.” Several of the proxy agencies describe themselves as a new, vital piece of social and economic infrastructure. Others privately suspect that, even without a crackdown by the authorities, they area temporary phenomenon, and that once Japan is over its resignation angst and the labour market becomes more liquid, demand will evaporate. In October, Mynavi published the results of a survey of 1,600 HR person- nel at Japanese companies, as well as 800 male and female employees aged in hard to present themselves as main- stream. More and more of them high- light their affiliation with unions, and many are attached to lawyers or small law firms. By last November, Albatross was forced to admit that the proxy game had reached an unexpected zenith. Some months earlier, the company had been hired to resign on behalf of a woman who later went to work for Albatross as a resignation agent. Albatross was then contacted by another proxy service informing it that she was now quitting Albatross. Put it all together — the reasons that people quit and the reactions — and the resignation agencies are positioned in the middle of a very big process of change for Japan itself, says one proxy agent. “We get so many requests from people who have wrestled with resigning but cannot resolve it on their own,” says Megumi Nishiyama, who works at an Osaka-based agency and has carried out about 500 resignations in the past year. “You are supposed to be able to resign when you want, but the reality is harassment, difficulty speaking up and pressure to treat the bosses’ word as absolute. As Japanese, there is stress associated with resigna- tion. We smooth that out, by acting as an intermediary.” Daisuke Kanama, an economist at Kanazawa University who last year published The Quietly Quitting Youth, devotes a chapter to the phenomenon of proxy resignation services and the effect it is having on companies as they begin to sweat: their entire employee retention strategies have been based on the misapprehension that they had the formula about right because people were staying. The proxy resigna- if the social costs of communication are heavy, you can see that ¥20,000 or ¥30,000 as an alternative is really, really cheap. It’s good value.” The concept of hiring proxies to smooth over any number of awkward, embarrassing or burdensome social sit- uations has been floating around Japan for some time. A few entrepreneurs have claimed to run extensive proxy services providing stand-in family members — fake husbands to appear alongside single mothers at school events, or fake parents who can impress the parents of a future spouse on a first meeting — but evidence for their actual use is slim. The founder of one resignation unable to make the journey themselves. But in terms of their power to disrupt, the resignation services appear to be making the most difference to tradi- tional patterns. At one level, the resigna- tion proxies make their fortunes meet- ing a practical need at a perfectly pitched price: cheap enough, because of the competition between rival agencies, for almost anyone to consider it worth the money for the avoidance of an awk- ward conversation. Efforts by employ- ers to dissuade would-be quitters are intensified when, in a labour market now feeling the strain of real shortages, a single resignation can hit a small or even medium-sized business hard. Japan’s population is declining fast. In the 12 months to October 1 2023, the number of Japanese nationals fell by 837,000 — the biggest number since comparable records began in 1950. It is also ageing fast: the Baby Boomers are retiring and, from this year, almost 30 per cent of the population will be over 65. Women and older people have joined the workforce in larger numbers in recent years, but it is proving tough to offset the decline in labour-intensive industries such as hospitality, construc- tion and transportation. At another level, the proxies owe their existence to something more sub- tle. Japan’s notoriously illiquid job mar- ket, where historically many people have expected to work for a single company for much of their lives, is starting to free up in unexpected ways as younger generations eschew the “endure everything” ethos that under- pinned their parents’ employee- employer relationships, or decide that the company they chose is not offering the opportunities for growth or respon- sibility it originally claimed. The varieties of exploitation, over- PPP eee PERE PEPE SEEPS EEE PEPE Pee eee eee eee Pee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eT eee eee eee eee eee Pee eee eee eee eee eee Pee eee ee ee eee eee eee eee Pee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee Pee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee OEE EERE EEE SEER EEE EEE EERE EE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EERE EERE EEE EEE EERE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EERE EEE EEE EEE EERE EERE EE EEE EE EEE EERE EEE REE EERE EEE EEE ERE EERE ES EERE EEE REET EERE EERE EERE SHEER EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE PERE EEE EE EEE EEE EE EEE REE REET EEE EEE EEE EERE EERE EEE CREE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EERE E EE EEE EERE E EERE EEE EEE EERE TERETE EEE SEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EE EH EEEEEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEEEE EEE EE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EE MEE EE EEE EEE EEE HE EE EEE EEE EEE EE BEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE SEE EEE HEHE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EH CHEE EEE EEE EEE HEHE REESE EEE ES and bearing it through unacceptable situations. I knew I wanted to leave pretty quickly, even though I had worked hard for the place and I didn’t want to go through the process of being told I was ungrateful by quitting. Japan makes a lot of life convenient, and is always looking for ways to smooth things. I think proxy resignation is just another example of that.” Masahiro Yamada, an expert in the sociology of emotions at Chuo Univer- sity, suggests that the use of proxy resig- nation services, and specifically the act of paying money to avoid confrontation, unwanted suasion and criticism, are a direct consequence of the way social norms have been formed. Japan is not monotheistic, he says, but has evolved a strong sense of community and collec- tivism. “To maintain your own self- image in that environment, you cannot give too much away and you avoid embarrassment or criticism.” All this has coincided, argues Kan- ama, with the long-term effects of low birth rates and the inexorable demo- graphic change eroding Japan’s cohort of young people. Japanese companies, he says, are best thought of as structured ona membership system: supported by a constant flow of young people at the bottom on the understanding that they will remain members for a long time and absolve the company from the need to engage in a lot of risky, expensive mid-career hiring. That model, says Kanama, is no longer sustainable because there are simply fewer young people to provide the flow. “The value of young people in Japan is increasing sharply, but compa- nies are not doing anything to change the old system. Young people suddenly find themselves in a strong position and I think this is creating a huge their twenties to fifties, which found __ tion agents are rapidly demonstrating When I fir st joined agency says that he haslookedintothe work, sexual harassment and bullying _ strain,” he says. that, in 2023, almost 17 per cent of not only that the companies do not qQ big company asa possibility of launching a proxy service — that pervade many Japanese companies Back at Albatross, founder Shinji Tan- people who changed jobs useda proxy _ have the formula right, but that many duate. I realised to handle relationship break-ups: the are less likely to be concealed inthe imotoarguesthatthe proxy agencies are agent to resign. are quite vulnerable to a sudden exodus Graduate, 1 FeAalise initial call or text to say itis over,the social mediaage. Atthesametime,the triggering a long-overdue clean-up of Just over 23 per cent of companies of labour when acheap, frictionless exit that Japanese collection of possessions fromthe other generation that now feels it cannot put’ subpar companies and dismal work- surveyed said they had experienced _ isonoffer. le] b person’s flat and the warning against up with those issues is allergic to _ place conditions. “In Japan today, quit- staff resigning via an agency. About “It’s difficult, even in academic con- people Nave been further attempts at contact. “It’s a head-onconfrontation. ting is seen as a bad thing. Now, if we use 40 per cent of employees said that __ ferences, to explain the Japanese tem- grinning and work in progress. It’s not clear it would “I know that older Japanese people __ resignation agents... changing jobs their main reason for using a proxy perament to people overseas,” says b ing it th h work,” he says. look down on my generationandsaywe _ will become a normal part of the cul- service was either because they had Kanama. “It’s hard to generalise, but if Caring | roug Proxy grave visits arerealand,inone aren't tough enough,” says Kei,agradu- __ ture,” he says. “It will take time, but if been barred from leaving or because you go back to the root of it all, what unacceptable case, are offered by a listed company atewhojoinedalargefoodcompanybut _ there were no resignation agents now, they feared that happening. And in Japanese people feel is a burdensome . . Ik ‘J which recognises that people attach resigned by proxyaftermonthsofwhat the bad companies would survive. To the almost three years since Japan cost of communication. The cost of situations. | knew importance to — and will pay ¥20,000 he claims were repeated instances of destroy really bad companies, the best emerged from the Covid-19 pandemic simply saying you want to quit is wanted toleave for —the ideathat aliving beinghasvis- _casual bullying. “But whenIfirstjoined wayistoget everyone to quit.” to find attitudes towards work had high. ..1 think Japanese people are ‘dite? ited (and scrubbed and weeded) a_ abig company asa graduate, I realised shifted, the proxy agencies have tried inherently bad at communication. And pretty quickly grave, even ifthe surviving relativesare thatJapanese peoplehavebeengrinning Leo Lewisisthe FT’s Tokyo bureau chief 22 February/23 February 2025 COE EEE EERE EEE EERE EEE EEE EERE RETR EEE EEE REE EERE REET EEE EE Ree eee eee
