METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: AND BL IUD THE GERMAN PEASANTS’ WAR in its narrative and perceptive in its assessments, making it...
ID: 143

CONTENT:
AND BL IUD THE GERMAN PEASANTS’ WAR in its narrative and perceptive in its assessments, making it easily the most accessible study in English for a general readership. The Regius professor of his- tory at the University of Oxford, Roper is a specialist on 16th-century Germany, with studies of Martin Luther and the witch craze of that era under her belt. Correctly, she places religion at the heart of her story. The Peasants’ War was “the giant trauma” at the centre of the Reformation, which had started less than a decade earlier, she writes. “And the war, in turn, cannot be understood if it has been severed from the heady atmosphere of religious excitement in which it took place.” The war was extraordinarily destruc- tive of lives and property. Fired up by the Reformation’s ideas about divinely ordained social justice, the peasants — at first in south-western Germany, then further afield — took their revenge on oppressive landowners and reduced hundreds of monasteries and castles to ashes and rubble. As the forces of law and order regained the upper hand, they annihilated the peasants’ ragtag armies, slaughtering perhaps 80,000- 100,000 people in a matter of weeks, Roper estimates. There was a certain strain of antisem- itism to the rebellion. For some radicals, “preaching the gospel was inseparable from attacking the injustice of charging interest and fleecing the poor” — some- thing for which monks and Jews were blamed. However, Roper points out that the attacks on usury and property did not degenerate into antisemitic pogroms. The uprising also had a millenarian dimension — the belief, held by mystical rebels such as Thomas Miintzer, that the end of the world was imminent. Roper tends to play down this impor- tant aspect of the Peasants’ War in favour of more detailed discussion of the main document of social grievances that emerged from the rebellion — the so-called Twelve Articles. Among other complaints, this denounced lords’ own- ership of peasants, insisted on a com- munity’s right to choose its own pastor, demanded fair access to forests and called for the abolition of death taxes and tithes on animals. Such social radicalism went way too far for Luther, who wrote what Roper calls an “infamous” anti-rebel tract, Against the Robbing, Murdering Hordes of Peasants. Luther took the view that there were slaves in the Old Testament, so to abolish serfdom would be to deprive lords of what was rightfully theirs. Luther grasped that the survival of his less extreme version of the Reformation required that the authorities should not associate his new religious ideas with calls to upend the social order. What were the lasting consequences of the Peasants’ War? The most obvious was the destruction and closure of num- erous monasteries and convents, which “accomplished one of the greatest trans- fers of land and property ever seen in the German region”, Roper says. Crucially, however, whereas the English Reforma- tion put monastic wealth in the hands of the nobility and gentry, the German beneficiaries were secular rulers. Roper contends the war repays study because it indicates the more radical road of social change the Reformation could have taken. However, her meticu- lous study of the rebellion makes clear such a turn of events was never likely. Ultimately, the old social order was rein- forced. The peasants were put back in their place and the winners were the German states and their bureaucracies. Tony Barber is the FT’s European comment editor
