METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: FINANCIAL TIMES “Without fear and without favour’ fq: ie FT Weekend America has turned on its fri...
ID: 112

CONTENT:
FINANCIAL TIMES “Without fear and without favour’ fq: ie FT Weekend America has turned on its friends Trump's abandonment of his country’s allies is real and will endure Winston Churchill is credited with say- ing that America does the right thing after exhausting the alternatives. Don- ald Trump has turned that aphorism on its head. In the past 10 days, he has all but incinerated 80 years of postwar American leadership. Those who thought America was a friend or ally, notably Ukraine and Nato, are dropping once safe assumptions to cope with a world in which America is an una- bashed predator. Countries that were treated by Washington as adversaries, notably Vladimir Putin’s Russia, are suddenly America’s friend. There were hinge moments in history when the US displayed its character as global leader, such as Dwight Eisen- hower’s repudiation of Anglo-French imperialism in the 1956 Suez crisis, or Ronald Reagan's 1987 exhortation to the Soviet Union to tear down the Berlin Wall. They defined the world’s idea of America. Trump’s assertion this week that Ukraine “should have never started” the war is the dark version of those. His account of Russia being pro- voked to invade Ukraine came straight from Putin’s talking points. So too was JD Vance’s Valentine’s Day speech in Munich in which the US vice-president identified liberal democracy as Europe's real threat from within. These moments will live in infamy. What do they tell us about what is com- ing? First, there should be no doubt that Trump's contempt for allies and admi- ration for strongmen is real and will endure. During his first term, Trump’s instincts were curbed by the more tradi- tional Republicans around him. Trump 2.0 is the real article. It is entirely possi- ble that figures like Marco Rubio, his secretary of state, or Mike Waltz, his national security adviser, still believe in the US-led alliance that each once championed. Their private thoughts are irrelevant. Each displayed fealty to Trump's predatory vision of America at talks with Russian counterparts in Saudi Arabia this week. Ukraine, the subject of the negotiations, was not invited. Nor was Europe. If you are not at the table, you are on the menu. Second, Trump is only getting started. His dismissal of Zelenskyy as “a dictator without elections” portends the disturb- ing outline of a peace settlement. Vance called Zelenskyy “disgraceful” for accusing Trump of living in a “disinfor- mation bubble”. The idea that Ukraine has been under brutal assault and faces possible extinction is dismissed as lib- eral virtue signalling, like DEI or consti- tutional guardrails. Trump is instinctively committed to the idea that the world is a jungle in which the big players take what they want. As such, it would be wrong to triv- ialise his repeated designs on Green- land, the Panama Canal, the Gaza Strip and even Canada. He divides the world The president is instinctively committed to the idea that the world is a jungle in which the big players take what they want 22 February/23 February 2025 into spheres of interest. There is a con- sistency to Trump’s sympathy with Putin’s claims on Russia’s backyard. There is also a symmetry in Trump’s reassertion of the Monroe Doctrine in which the US has domain over the west- ern hemisphere. Some have projected on to Trump a clever chess move in which he is luring Russia away from its “no limits” part- nership with China in a reverse of what Richard Nixon did in the cold war. But that is wishful thinking. Any such manoeuvre would make sense only in concert with America’s allies. While promising to lift sanctions on Russia, Trump is readying for a new transatlan- tic trade war. After three generations of US leadership, it is always tempting to believe that Trump does not mean what he says. Perhaps this is a feint in some grand art of the deal. But allies and erst- while friends must banish those self- soothing thoughts. With Trump, what you see is what you get. America has turned. PPP eee PPP ee eee ee eee Pee ere See eee eee eee eee eee eee Pree eee eee eee eee eee ere ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee SEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE HEHEHE EEE EH EEE EE EEE EEE EH CHEE EE EEE EEE EE EE EEE EEE EE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE TEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EH EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE HEHE EEE EEE EH EEE EEE EEE EEE EH HEHEHE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EH OEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EET TE ET TEE ET TTT EE EE EET ETE TET TR TTT ETT TT Ee TE Te Eee ee Opinion Data Points Is air travel becoming more dangerous? John Burn-Murdoch US commercial aviation remains safe Fatal commercial airline incidents 5 1990 2000 2010 2020 Serious* commercial airline incidents per million flights 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 “Instances where the aircraft sustained substantial damage or was destroyed, or fatalities resulted Source: US National Transportation Safety Board. September 11 crashes excluded ate last month, a helicopter and passenger airliner col- lided mid-air over the Potomac River in Washing- ton DC, killing all 67 on board both aircraft. This week, a Delta Air Lines jet crashed on the runway in Toronto, catching fire and rolling upside down, though no one was killed. Between those two incidents, a commuter plane went down off the coast of Alaska, killing 10 people. Then on Wednesday a mid-air colli- sion in Arizona left two people dead. Is aviation’s enviable safety record breaking down? It helps to consider smaller and larger aircraft separately. We're often told flying is the safest mode of trans- port. But that depends. For commer- cial airliners it’s unquestionably true. But smaller commuter planes such as the one that crashed in Alaska have a higher fatality risk per hour compared to car travel, and the smallest private planes can be as much as 10 times more dangerous than driving. The examples above are in fact only a subset of the 10 fatal air accidents in January in the US. Yet far from indicat- ing an alarming spate of incidents, this was an all-time low for the month. Sadly, fatal crashes with smaller planes are not uncommon but here, too, the trend is generally in the right direction. If we narrow our focus to large com- mercial passenger flights, the deadly Washington crash is the exception that proves the rule of increasing safety. It is the first US mass-fatality flight since a turboprop plane crashed in 2009 in New York state killing 49 people. Deadly crashes of large planes have gone from several a year in the 1980s and early 1990s, to one every several years today. The same trend is apparent around the world: the rate of serious crashes of large planes is at or near all-time lows in every region apart from Africa, and even there it’s just a third of what it was 20 years ago. Commercial air travel remains very safe. But although deadly passenger airliner crashes remain rare, these extreme and often luck-dependent edge cases are not necessarily the best yardstick for assessing aviation safety more broadly. What happens when we expand the criteria to inci- dents that fortunately did not result in major loss of life? Could there be omi- nous trends beneath the surface that just haven’t been fully realised yet? Some people have raised concerns over increasingly crowded skies due to the advent of private air taxis and drones. While there is yet to be a major incident, US data shows that close encounters between commercial air- liners and drones have been on the rise, with dozens of close calls and minor collisions now reported by pilots every year, some requiring them to change course. Alarms have also been raised about near misses between large jets, partic- ularly runway incursions where two planes come scarily close while navi- gating take-off and landing, often due to errors by increasingly stretched air- traffic control staff. While these inci- dents did become more common dur- ing the early 2000s and 2010s, the nearest misses remain exceptionally rare (occurring less than once in every million take-offs and landings), and rates have been flat if not falling slightly in the most recent years. Nonetheless, there are mounting concerns that the already chronically understaffed US air-traffic control service could be plunged into a full- blown crisis due to the firing of hun- dreds of these federal employees in the latest round of President Donald Trump and Elon Musk’s so-called war on inefficiency. Understaffing of air-traffic control has been cited as a possible contribut- ing factor in the DC crash, although the helicopter pilot was in dialogue with the control tower leading up to the collision and appeared to have acknowledged the jet’s proximity. There is also concern over increas- ing turbulence, fuelled by climate change, with one death after a particu- larly extreme case on a London to Sin- gapore flight last year. Thus far there is no evidence of arise in rates of serious incidents caused by these conditions, however. Taking all available evidence together, there is certainly no cause for complacency, and some risks do appear to be higher today than a dec- ade or two past. But despite the recent spate of high-profile incidents, there is no indication of a deterioration in safety in recent months or years. Con- sidering the enormous and increasing complexity involved, commercial air travel’s continued excellent safety record remains remarkable. john. burn-murdoch@ fi.com Letters Email: letters.editor@ft.com Include daytime telephone number and full address Corrections: corrections@ft.com If you are not satisfied with the FT’s response to your complaint, you can appeal to the FT Editorial Complaints Commissioner: complaints. commissioner@ft.com UK must avoid tampering with its tax-free investment wrapper You write that equity fund managers are lobbying the chancellor to restrict individual savings accounts (Isas) from holding cash, forcing investors into stocks-and-shares Isas. I suspect high street retailers are missing a trick not conducting their own lobbying to restrict online retailers, which would force us all into the shops more (Report, February 1)! As a former finance professor, I have long been dismayed at the UK’s low savings rate and despair at any tampering with this tax-free Captain Oates and the assisted dying debate I always enjoy Camilla Cavendish’s column in FT Weekend. I do not always agree with everything she writes but in her piece on the assisted dying debate (Opinion, FT.com, February 15), every single word is irrefutable. I believe that we all should be asking not “How can we protect the vulnerable?” but “What would I want for myself?” Our children — I am 82 — have no right to leave us to suffer palliative care merely to ease their consciences. Captain Oates — one of the crew on Scott’s expedition to the Antarctic — is honoured because he hastened his inevitable death by walking out into the icy storm. Why should I not have the freedom to choose to relieve my children of the burden of watching me die a slow and miserable death? I have a strong and simple Christian faith and a belief in the loving mercy of God, evidenced in the life and death of Jesus of Nazareth. It was Jesus who said there is no greater love than to lay down one’s life for one’s friends. That is good enough for me. Diana Dobson Monkton Farleigh, Wiltshire, UK Nothing like a cabriole leg to lift the Polly Peck mood Asil Nadir (“Charismatic fraudster kept justice at bay for a decade”, Obituaries, February 15) certainly divided opinion. When as a partner at the law firm acting for Polly Peck’s administrators I was tasked with clearing his desk, I recall his unopened post told different stories. “I enclose a £5 note to help you in your difficulties”, read one, through to “You Bastard!”. You write that removal men beat the administrators to it on the antiques, but they didn’t manage to take everything. I recall a planning meeting at Berkeley Square (led by insolvency maestro Tony Kett) and how the mood picked up when it was revealed to us the chairs we were sitting on were by Chippendale, the great 18th-century English cabinetmaker. Duncan Aldred London EC2, UK Trump the isolationist — it may be wish fulfilment You write that American chief executives are worried as the looming prospect of tariffs starts to affect their bottom line (“Is America Inc souring on Trump?”, The Big Read, FT Weekend, February 15). What they haven't yet factored in is that having such an unreliable tenant in the White House affects US credibility across the world. America’s natural allies will not forgive US voters for unleashing Donald Trump on them. Its natural enemies will just look on investment wrapper that may reduce it further. There are so many reasons why individuals might want mostly cash Isas. The young may need to save up for a deposit on a home. Others nearing retirement may want to undertake a long-awaited home repair. Sadly there may be some with medical conditions and more uncertain life expectancy. Pushing any of the former into equities where a market downturn could coincide with a large cash requirement is horrible financial Pop artist Corita Kent’s mural adorns the National Grid gas tank in Boston with glee. Trump will find that relationships are more than just transactions. So, when America finds it needs allies, will there be any? If Trump wanted to be an isolationist, he may get his wish; it may be forced on him. Jane Phillips Occupational Psychologist, Cambridge, Cambridgeshire, UK This FT reader clearly was paying attention Regarding San Diego landmarks, the photograph of a woman on rollerblades checking her mobile phone, accompanying the books review “Are we paying attention?” (February 1), is not of Balboa Park, as captioned. It appears to be the Mission Beach Boardwalk. Was the caption a mistake, or was the mislabelling intentional to see if we were paying attention? If the latter, then well played. Joy Phillips Research Professor, San Diego State University, San Diego, CA, US Interpreter or translator? Theyre not the same Sarah Hemming’s review of Howard Brenton’s new play Churchill in Moscow was insightful (Theatre, Life & Arts, February 15). However it’s a pity that she uses “interpreter” and “translator” interchangeably. Both transfer meaning between languages, but this play is very much about the role of the interpreters, who deal with the spoken language. It’s a bit like using “auditor” and “accountant” interchangeably because they both work with figures, or alternating “geographer” and “geologist” because they both study the Earth. Janet Fraser Freelance translator, reviser and editor; Fellow of the Institute of Translation and Interpreting, London TW1, UK management. The cash Isa is a great incentive to encourage savings and hopefully, as amounts reach higher levels, those with the flexibility should be educated to consider equities for better, albeit more risky, returns. Though, in basic financial terms, it is easier to take risk for better return when you have more! Much of the fund manager argument is “waving the flag”. But I know that the £20,000 I put into a fixed-term cash Isa at Lloyds or Aldermore is almost certain to fund a UK small business or Michelin stars and Gallicos midnight visitor Janan Ganesh asks (“Michelin and the return of deference”, Opinion, Life & Arts, February 15) whether the opinion of experts in judging a restaurant is superior to the wisdom of crowds. It reminds me of a short story by Paul Gallico, The Awful Secret of M. Bonneval. A superb cook longs for a Michelin star for his provincial restaurant and is given a tip-off that an inspector is visiting on a particular day. Overcome by nerves, temper and bad luck, he finds that every dish he cooks for the supposed critic goes wrong. It’s only when he apologises later to his wife and cat by cooking a sublime dinner for them that he achieves supremacy. Half of it is then served toa starving traveller who arrives unexpectedly at midnight. Yes, M. Bonneval wins his star, but his inexpert provincial fans were on to his mastery already. “Deference lives”, your columnist says, but those who work as writers, artists or cooks know that prize judges can also be swayed by fashion and marketing, rather than genuine creative excellence. We are all hoping for Gallico’s midnight visitor, who responds like an ordinary diner — with spontaneous delight as well as expertise. Amanda Craig London NW1, UK The pop-art nun's signature mural Your article about the Catholic nun Sister Corita Kent (Collecting, Life & Arts, February 15) was a delightful reminder of her vibrant artistry and social activism. I wanted to add another dimension, particularly for your readers in and around Boston. While the article highlighted her printmaking and teaching, it’s important to note that Kent’s largest public artwork isn’t tucked away in a museum or gallery. It graces the skyline of Boston's Dorchester neighbourhood: the iconic National Grid gas tank. This massive mural, a testament to her bold vision, brings her signature style of vibrant colours and uplifting messages to an unexpected canvas. It’s a powerful and visible reminder of her commitment to art for the people, transforming an industrial structure into a beacon of hope and community spirit. The gas tank mural, often visible from various points across the city, serves as a testament to the scale of Kent’s artistic ambition and the enduring power of her work. It’s a piece that continues to inspire and uplift passers-by. I encourage you to seek it out if you're in the Boston area or peak out of your airline window if you're flying into Boston’s Logan airport. You can’t miss it! Marianne Connolly Boston, MA, US personal loan. Whereas the £20,000 I put into a world index fund is likely to see at most £1,000 to £2,000 stay in the UK. Take that to the extreme of forcing me to buy UK-listed shares and if I invest in listed Glencore, what is the likelihood its next mine will be in the UK — ie that any of my money stays here? How much of the FTSE 100 is really in the UK? A cynic might say there is a fee motivation at play here. Pete Hahn Emeritus Professor of Banking & Finance London W9, UK Film collaboration hard to imagine in today’s Russia Kudos and appreciation to Max Seddon for highlighting the work of the Ukrainian film producer Alexander Rodnyansky (Interview, Life & Arts, February 15). His trilogy of films, with acclaimed Russian director Andrei Zvyagintsev (Elena, Leviathan and Loveless), are masterpieces which together unveil and presage the political and social rot developing in Vladimir Putin’s Russia. The miracle is that these films were made at all (and supported, in the case of Elena and Leviathan, by the Russian Ministry of Culture) — an absolute impossibility in today’s Russia. It is worth noting that Rodnyansky’s remarkable book, also entitled Loveless and available as yet only in Russian, is published by Meduza. This organisation is an independent news agency (Russian/English) and publishing house manned by talented, articulate Russian journalists, all of whom have bravely continued their work in exile. Lawrence Sherwin London TW11, UK Oh for a return of the entertainment budget Having seen up close the damage caused to the UK’s financial services industry by excessive and arcane regulation (eg bank ringfencing), or the completely pointless versions of it (eg most parts of the EU’s post financial crisis Mifid Il reforms), I couldn’t agree more with Andy Haldane’s op-ed “How to dismantle the UK’s regulatory Tower of Babel” (Opinion, February 8). However, one easy move that might raise those “animal spirits” would be to relax the restrictions around gifts and entertainment. It’s not clear who has benefited from what amounted to the cancellation of an activity that before 2008 was a key component in relationship building across many parts of capital markets. Sure, there was some excess back in the glory years of peak City (not that I worked in a part of it that was very peaky), but what of it? These days in banking it’s hard to buy a client a sandwich without attracting the ire of compliance (in the name of the Financial Conduct Authority’s onerous guidelines), let alone take a client toa major sporting event or a fancy game of golf, all of which are viewed as bribery inside many companies. Ed Allchin Director, Fintrinsic; Founder of Autonomous Research, London W9, UK Correction e The name of the FT’s recently deceased crossword setter Paul Facey-Hunter was wrongly stated in a letter on February 15. 22 February/23 February 2025 * FT Weekend Opinion Pee PEROT EES SECTOR ECT E SEC CeCe eee eee e eT Pee eee eee Ce CPPCC eee Cee eee Pe ee Pee eee Pe eee Cee eee eee ee PP ee Pee eee eee PPP ee Pee eee Pee Pee Pee eee cee Pee Pee ee Pee eee eee eee eee eee ee Pec eee eee eee PPC eee eee eee eee eee Cee eT PP eee eee Pee eee ee eee Pee Ce Pee eee Pe eee ee Cee ee CPP eee Pee Pee eee Pe eee CPP Pee eee ee Pee eee eee Cee Cee eee ee Pe eee cee eee Pee Pee eee eee eee eee eee eee Tee eee eee eee ee ee eee ee eee Pee eee es Cee eee eee eee eee Pee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee Pe eee eee eee ee ee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee ee ee ee eee eee eee ee eee Tee ee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee ee eee eee ee ee ee eee ee eee Tee eee eee eee ee eee eee ee eee ee eee ee ee ee eee eee ee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee ee? eee eee eee ee ee eee eee eee ee eee Pee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee ee eee? Pee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee ee eee eee ee eee ee ee ee ee ee eee ee eee ee ee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee eee ee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee ee eee
