METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: COREE OEE EEE EEE EERE ER EEE ERE EEE EERE SERRE EERE EEE EE EEE EERE EERE DEERE EERE EEE EE EEE ...
ID: 139

CONTENT:
COREE OEE EEE EEE EERE ER EEE ERE EEE EERE SERRE EERE EEE EE EEE EERE EERE DEERE EERE EEE EE EEE EERE EEE EEE EE EERE EEE EERE EEE EERE EERE EEE EERE EERE EERE EEE EERE EEE EEE EERE E EEE EERE EEE CEE EERE EEE EERE CERES EERE EERE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EERE EERE EERE EERE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE ERE E EEE E EERE EERE EERE EEE EEE EEE CEE E EERE EERE EE EERE E EERE EERE CHEER EEE E EERE EERE ERE EEE EERE REE REE ED SEE ERR EEE EERE EERE EEE E RHEE EEE EEE EERE EE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EH EERE EE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE SHEE EEE EEE EEE EH EEEEHEE EEE EEE EH HEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE MEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EE MEE EE EEE EEE EEE REE EEE EEE HEHEHE EEE EE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EHH EE HEHEHE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE HEE EE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EHH ES HEE EEE ETE EEE EHH EEEEHE EE EHH Ee HEHE HEHEHE TTT ETS TE EEL LLL LLL LLL LLL LLL LLL Lee, orothy Carrington came to Corsica by way of the Lon- don Underground. Her lover, Sir Francis Rose, pos- sibly misjudging the roman- tic backdrop, proposed on the tube. It was the depths of the second world war. The two were impoverished members of bohemian London, Francis a surrealist painter, Dorothy a writer and curator; later they claimed they lived chiefly on dandelion leaves that flourished amid the wreckage of the Blitz. Francis pushed the boat out to cele- brate their engagement, and took Dor- othy toa sailors’ café down on the docks. The waiter serving the prenuptial fry-up was one Jean Cesari, a Corsican. He spent most of the evening regaling the two with tales of his homeland, of dream prophecies, of mysterious standing stones, of mountain villages, of nomadic shepherds, of an island remote from the modern world. Dorothy was smitten, though perhaps more with Corsica than with Francis. Three years later, with the war at an end, she set off for the island with her hus- band in tow, carrying two suitcases full of sugar and coffee, both in short supply after the war. “Corsica came into view with the dawn,” she wrote breathlessly of her first glimpse of the island at the al , Lille Rousse | ‘ ~~ “Calvi . 4 Monte Cinto CORSICA Ajaccio, rail of their boat. “It swam in the early morning mist...taking substance between sea and sky.” Visitors have a habit of falling for Cor- sica. Everyone from James Boswell and Edward Lear to Beyoncé has been capti- vated. Dorothy’s marriage to Francis eventually foundered. It probably didn’t help that he was gay, and perhaps ambivalent about standing stones. Back in England, he spent his later years ina village in Surrey, where he attended church — ever the surrealist — wearing a Mexican sombrero and leading a cat on a gold chain. But for Dorothy, Corsica lasted a life- time. She became an expatriate fixture of the island, travelling its length and breadth in old buses, and living for years in arenovated pigeon loft in Ajaccio. She wrote numerous books about Corsica, including Granite Island, which won the Heinemann Award in 1971 and is still in print as a Penguin Classic. She died in Ajaccio at the age of 91 in 2002, in the embrace of the island she loved. Dorothy would agree on the two principles for visitors to Corsica. Never come in July and August, when the heat and the crowds are ridiculous; and don’t get stuck on the coast. Saint- Florent, Lille Rousse, Calvi, Ajaccio and Porto-Vecchio are typical French Medi- terranean resorts with palm-lined cor- niches, pavement cafés and summer hotels and apartments piled up above yacht-filled marinas. But in these woozy, sun-drenched, beach-lounger towns, you could, frankly, be anywhere in the Mediterranean. Corsicans thought little of their coast in the past. It was a dangerous place, the sea an easy highway for North African pirates, Genoese galleys and boisterous Vandals. In those days, a junior member of the family got the posting down onthe shore to grow a few tomatoes, dry some fish and play dead when the invaders arrived. Women traditionally inherited the worthless coastal lands, while men owned the highlands. If the female line is now rolling in cash from tourist devel- opments, and the male line trailing after sheep, it is probably only fair dues. The islanders have always preferred their mountain villages, and to engage with Corsica, to get a feeling for the island, you need to follow them up those wonderful winding roads, into the for- ests of holm oak and chestnut trees, where upland valleys are enclosed by rock peaks, and gorgeous stone villages are set like balconies over mountain panoramas. This is the Corsica Dorothy loved, and would still recognise. This is where Corsican identity is rooted. Dorothy wrote of Corsica “heaving into the sky”. The island is often called a mountain in the sea. It has 120 peaks over 2,000 metres, the highest being Monte Cinto, at 2,706 metres, sometimes armoured with snow until well into sum- mer. One of the toughest long-distance mountain treks in Europe, the famous GR20, runs down the island’s spine. The record for its end-to-end completion is 30 hours and 25 minutes; less hardcore hikers might want to give ita week. Early one morning I drove up to the Bavella pass above Zonza. The road felt like a backdrop for a John Ford Western — dramatic cliffs, strange rock forma- tions, some ominous sense of what might lie around the next bend. Far below, the River Solanzara tumbled over white boulders into turquoise pools. Between the trunks of laricia pine, I glimpsed the serrated “Aiguilles” — Corsica | When Dorothy Carrington first glimpsed the ‘granite island’ emerging from the sea in 1948, it was the beginning of a love that would last the rest of her life. Stanley Stewart follows in the writer's footsteps From top: the ‘Aiguilles’ — needles — of the Bavella massif, seen from the Col de Bavella; a pavement café in Bonifacio; the megaliths at Cauria; the Haute Ville at Bonifacio, clinging to the cliffs at the island’s southern tip — Hemis/Aiamy, John Elk i/Getty images, jorungal/iStock/Getty hmages In the footsteps of... This piece is the latest in a series in which writers are guided by a notable earlier traveller. For more in the series, see ft.com/footste needles — of the Bavella massif, immor- talised in Edward Lear’s melodramatic etchings. This morning, Bavella was rising out of the lap of clouds. At the height of the pass, I met a shep- herd lighting a candle at the shrine of Notre-Dame de la Neige, Our Lady of the Snows. A white plaster statue, Our Lady looked like a shop mannequin teetering on a pile of rocks. The shepherd looked like Clark Gable, to whom wardrobe had given the wrong hat. A man in his sixties, he spoke in a hoarse whisper, as if imparting secrets. I asked about transhumance, the nomadic movement of livestock, still prevalent in Corsica, from the rich summer valleys high in the mountains to the lower winter pastures. He laid his hand on my arm. “The pigs seem to be in charge of things,” he whis- pered. “The animals know where they are going. We just trail along behind to check ifany are missing.” I asked which season he preferred. Summer in the high mountains, he replied. “The animals are happier here, good grass, less people. No one likes the coast except the French, who seem to enjoy toasting themselves.” No Corsican would describe himself as French. The independence movement has a long his- tory here and there is much antipathy to Frenchrule. I set off walking with a guide, Julie Michel Chaffurin, climbing through the woods. Watery sunlight trickled over thick carpets of ferns. The air was heavy with the scent of pine. A bird was singing — asittelle corse, an endemic nuthatch. Ata high viewpoint, we seemed to be at eye level with the Bavella massif, its flanks rising in sheer metallic precipices like a gigantic piece of sculpture. Julie was talking about the mazzeri, the dream hunters of Corsica. Dorothy was obsessed with the mazzeri and wrote a book about their dark arts. They are said to leave their beds at night to go hunting, and kill the first animal they encounter. In the face of the animal — though some say in the entrails — they see the face of a fellow villager. Within the year, that person will die. It is not a curse but a prophecy; the mazzeri are predicting a death, not causing it. Some people insist that they never actually leave their beds but merely dream their hunts. Others claim to have seen them creeping about at night on their deadly missions. Still others believe they are capable of bilocation — of being in two places at once. The Church disapproves, and modern generations are less likely to believe such fancies, but in mountain villages people still burn immortelle, a Corsican herb, on July 31, a day tradi- tionally associated with the mazzeri, to ward off malevolent influences. It was Julie who recommended the megaliths at Cauria. Like Dorothy, she is passionate about Corsica’s prehistoric monuments. Corsica could be a setting for the Asterix stories. The island is littered with mysterious menhirs and dolmens. You keep expecting Obelix to appear from behind a tree in his striped pantaloons and pigtails. Cauria lies in the deep south, in the Sartenais region. Pirates made off with much of the district’s population in the 15th and 17th centuries and it remains an empty, haunting landscape. Like a lot of Corsica, it is cloaked in maquis, that low-lying aromatic Mediterranean scrub — myrtle, yellow-flowering broom, len- tisk with its crimson berries, cyclamen and hellebore, rosemary and lavender. I followed a dirt track that cut down between the slopes of maquis. Don’t tell Avis, but the deep ruts and chasms of the track were not strictly appropriate for a compact category of hire car. After half a mile or so, [leftthe carina hedge and proceeded on foot, emerging eventually on the valley bottom, where 11 menhirs, the Alignment of Stantari, stood in military file in the hot sun. Dating from about 2000BC, they ranged from barely a metre to well over two metres in height. Most were worn smooth, though some bore the ghost of a face and a sword. Like many prehistoric monuments, much about them was unknown and probably unknowable. Following a faint path, I found a second group in a copse of trees. I was alone here. There was no gate, no ticket office, no one else about, just the quivering heat and the hum of cicadas. Archaeologists have numerous theo- ries — that standing stones had a ritual purpose, that their alignments might be astrological. But standing stones are mute and there is no certainty about what they were, what they meant. Dor- othy believed they were symbols of dead people; she wrote of the sense of “a crowd of ghosts or half-created men”. And on this still afternoon in the shade of the trees, the stones felt like memorials of the distant dead, the atmosphere that of a forgotten country churchyard. My last night in Corsica found me in Bonifacio. The town clings toa cliff at the southern tip of the island, the rock beneath its feet eroded dramatically by wind and sea. Several houses have already lost their grip and fallen into the waves below. The maze of narrow streets is lined with tall Genoese tenements and brooding churches built by an assort- ment of invaders. Above the town battle- ments, I gazed across the dark straits to the lights on Sardinia’s northern coast. In the nave of Eglise Saint-Dominique, I took my seat for a concert of tradi- tional Corsican singing known as Poly- phonies Corses. A trio of men stood by the altar. They looked like farmers or tradesmen, broad-chested and big- shouldered. They sang unaccompanied, their harmonies soaring into the vaults. . Sia5 al Ve < | OREO | 5 ; * —— - » Ss » Ye r ~ > 3 “ 7 . rT oe ART Sei r. alll They were singing paghjella, an emo- tional style of Corsican song that deals with love and loss. The three male voices weaved around one another. One carried the melody. Another anchored the harmonies with deep bass notes while a third embellished them with a counterpoint of fluctuating notes. The effect was startling and powerful. Like the menhirs, the roots of this musical form are much discussed. Musi- cologists hear the influence of Genoese madrigals, Gregorian plainchant, the call of the Arab muezzin, even Roman liturgy. But everyone agrees about its antiquity. There is the persistent idea that paghjella is music from some dis- tant pre-Christian past, that these har- monies may be those of Dorothy’s crowd of ghosts. “It was like hearing a voice from the depths of the earth... ” she wrote, “from a beginning that one never dares believe is accessible.” i / DETAILS Stanley Stewart was a guest of Original Travel Souginaltravel co.uk) |ts Trails of Corsica tripisa nine-night self-drive itinerary, flying into Bastia in the north of the island, and out of Figari in the south, with accommodation in Oletta, Corte and Figari. It costs from £3,500 per person, including flights from London, hotels, car hire and activities ~ ) Door-to-awe To celebrate 100 years of exclusive guided travel, we are offering COM! > when you book any European river cruise or land journey by 28 February, 2025." Discover in style with the original guided tour company. Contact your local travel advisor or Tauck at 20 for further information and to book. LAND | RIVER SMALL SHIP | FAMILY *Go to tauck.co.uk/takeoff for full terms and conditions. Offer subject to availability. Landtours Ltd t/as Tauck, <BABTA 301 Watling Street, Radiett WD7 7LA tauck.co.uk 8 * FT Weekend FT Globetrotter 22 February/23 February 2025
