METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: MAASTRICHT y ‘ ,* ~~ o Ving t 7 + * ate 3 ve ¢ ¢- 8 i wF At : é ° » i é. series a Striking verisi...
ID: 151

CONTENT:
MAASTRICHT y ‘ ,* ~~ o Ving t 7 + * ate 3 ve ¢ ¢- 8 i wF At : é ° » i é. series a Striking verisimilitude. The opportunity to smash a few lazy stereo- types was seized enthusiastically. “We can think of Jamaicans purely as Yardies [in the UK],” says German-Ja- maican Annetta Laufer, one of the series’ directors. “They either do drugs or they’re incredibly poor. To see middle-class Jamaicans, white and black, with kids, houses and cars, just going to work, isn't something we're used to seeing. And what does a poor Jamaican look like, anyway? It’s not just about poverty. You'd expect the gullies [Kingston’s open storm-drains | to be the worst place on Earth, but the Sunlight Ladies have created a beautiful safe space there.” The Sunlight Ladies is the name given to the trans community in which Hibis- < & maw 7. ah 6 dj . * be fey Gs : . ee a o> nce in “Get Millie Black’; below: series creator Marlon James — cer) cus has found shelter and solidarity, based on the real-life “Gully Queens”. The light cast on LGBT + lives in Jamaica is one of the series’ most significant achievements. For James, who under- went religious rituals as a young man to “drive out the gay”, it has been a heart- ening experience. Lawrance says she was moved by her mother’s suggestion that the series could be “healing” for Jamaica — something she believes also applies to Mr Loverman. The BBC’s superb Bernardine Evaristo adaptation last year took Caribbean queerness into the 21st century diaspora. “People who haven't been to Jamaica — or not for years — expect a Jamaica that doesn’t exist any more,” says James. “T used to mock that until I became that very person. ‘ inn ’ a For example, I was at aclub with fully out trans women during the shoot. That would never have happened in 2007, when I left. Places change and grow when you're not there. I liked this Jamaica, more than the one I left.” For Lawrance, who says she was raised “culturally Jamaican” in north London by a mother who arrived in the UK aged 17, it was a homecoming with its own revelations. “As a Londoner sometimes at odds with my British heritage, I’ve always wanted to come back to Jamaica,” she says. “That desire was consolidated by spending time there, but some of the fantasy was dispelled as well. This is a country ransacked by colonisation and ‘My mum had to deal witha country letting go of empire — she was a cop when Jamaica was still a colony’ there’s a lot of hardship . . . More gener- ally, it’s struggling under the thumb of American colonialism these days — most people can’t leave without a US visa, because you have to go via Miami to get anywhere else in the Caribbean. Some people can only get visas through nepotism or if they’re of a certain class, so a lot of people are stuck and opportu- nities are limited.” The holy grail for broadcasters is the returning series. So, does British TV have the appetite to sustain these stories beyond a one-season splash? Lawrance counsels caution, noting the early can- cellation of several series exploring new worlds with Black female leads — not just Three Little Birds, but also London- set shows such as Champion and Riches. “We see these waves of diverse shows a lot. Some of our popular channels like to have the appearance of variety, but the real support for the long-standing careers of Black writers, showrunners, producers, isn’t there. Get Millie Black has the potential to do more, but will it?” ‘Get Millie Black’ is on Channel 4 in the UK from March 5 at 9pm and streaming on Max in the US CIENT ro CONTEMPORARY scover 7,000 years of ART 16 * FT Weekend 22 February/23 February 2025
