METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: CEE EERE EERE SEER EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EE EERE HERE EERE EERE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EE...
ID: 134

CONTENT:
CEE EERE EERE SEER EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EE EERE HERE EERE EERE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE CHEE EEE EEE EEE EE EERE EEE EEE E EEE ERE EERE RHEE EEE Tee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee ee ee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee ee ee ee eee eee ee eee ee ee eee ee eee ee ee eee eee eee eee He was a privileged observer, then a casualty of the global turn to the right. Over sole meuniere and Sancerre in Brussels, Belgium's former prime minister talks to Alice Hancock about Donald Trump's ‘America Only’ agenda — and why the EU can thrive in times of crisis lexander De Croo slips into La Belle Maraichere look- ing more like a business- man taking a quick Mon- day lunch than a former prime minister who has spent the past week debating Europe's current geopo- litical quagmire. He takes me slightly by surprise as I sit enjoying some rare February sun- shine slipping through the lace curtains of this fish restaurant in Brussels’ Flem- ish quarter. This will be De Croo’s first interview since stepping down two weeks ago. Appearing relatively laid- back in an open-neck white shirt and navy suit, he looks, despite the dark times, as if he might really believe the optimistic title of his recent memoir: Why the Best Is Yet To Come. The Flemish liberal even reflects brightly upon my broken leg (a skiing accident), which Iam valiantly trying to hide beneath the tablecloth, professing that last year he was in the same resort as me but snowboarding. “A safer sport perhaps’, he laughs. In need of a safer sport is certainly how Europe feels at the moment. Right- wing parties emboldened by the elec- tion of Donald Trump in the US are eye- ing further electoral victories across the EU. The Alternative for Germany (AfD), which has been courted by the Trump administration, is on course to win the second-highest number of seats in Ger- man federal elections this weekend. The new Belgian government is itself led by a rightwing nationalist group. Meanwhile, Trump has unleashed an aggressive policy of trade tariffs and threatened to take over Greenland, an autonomous Danish territory. Last week, European governments were left reeling as Trump initiated bilateral peace talks with Russia, cutting Europe definitively out of negotiations. De Croo is fresh from the Munich Security Conference, at which Trump's vice-president, JD Vance, sparked out- rage by taking aim at European efforts to prevent misinformation and accusing the bloc’s leaders of “running in fear of your own voters’. The minute I raise the outlook for the continent, I suddenly feel that the prime ministerial side of De Croo has returned. “No one can underestimate the moment in which we are,” he says gravely. “There is quite a big risk that Europe is being redrawn and that we are not at the table. What I disagree with is that the Euro- pean reaction up to now has been a chaos of anger, contesting and blaming.” De Croo, fond of a quote, continues: “Someone once said ‘there’s only one way to manage your anger and that’s do your best and prove people wrong. | totally agree.” Europe needs to put together a clear programme, he argues, fingers sketch- ing on the beige tablecloth: “What we should do is to say, ‘OK this is the role we want to play, and we're not going to accept that Europe is being redrawn without our being present, but this is how we do it’. That’s the proposal we come with, that’s the people we put around the table.” he weighty politics is momentarily diffused by the return of the dickie- bowed waiter. The restau- rant De Croo has chosen, whose name translates roughly as the “pretty market gardener’, is a stone’s throw from the headquarters of his lib- eral party, Open VLD, and has been fre- quented by the Belgian politician for years. He knows the owner and even brought Angela Merkel here when she did her farewell tour of Europe. He likes it because it is a “good restaurant”, nota “highbrow” one, and he loves fish. After a short debate about whether the Belgian penchant for fish and frites is comparable to British fish and chips, De Croo makes a quick order in Flemish requesting the same for both of us: tra- ditional shrimps croquettes and sole meuniére. We also agree on a half-bottle of Sancerre, despite De Croo insisting that he would normally drink beer with non-Belgians. “Our national product is beer and we should push it a bit more.” He flashes a tour guide smile and offers tosend me recommendations. At roughly the same time that we are mulling over fish options, a select group of European leaders are at a meeting in Paris organised by French President Emmanuel Macron for crisis talks on Ukraine and the continent’s future defence. I wonder if De Croo already misses being part of the fray. “That's a double question,” he says with just a slight sigh. “The last almost five years as prime minister and 15 years in national politics, I enjoyed every moment of it. And yes the international part of it was something that I particu- larly enjoyed . . . But by definition it’s a temporary job.” Lunch with the FT Alexander De Croo FT Weekend SEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EERE EERE EE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE ETRE eee eee
