METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: PRICES FROM 680.000€ +351 914 071 129 vilamoura.pt FT Weekend book Tulips and Peacocks (Yale, 202...
ID: 167

CONTENT:
PRICES FROM 680.000€ +351 914 071 129 vilamoura.pt FT Weekend book Tulips and Peacocks (Yale, 2024), demonstrate the fact. In the dining room in his London house Morris hung a beautiful 16th-century carpet from Kerman with a pattern like a Persian garden: this “vase” carpet is now in the Victoria and Albert Museum. Tulips, dianthus and roses on decorated tiles from the Islamic world inspired his representation of flowers and stems and his distribution of them in his designs. He worked for more than a year on writing out and decorating a book of Fitzgerald’s famous translation of The Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam, the Persian poet. The exhibition shows it under a glass case, and even shows the big cloth that was draped over Morris's _—*-F sa T =| es = = coffin for his funeral. It stitched together two velvet hangings made in 17th-century Bursa, in Ottoman Turkey. Their pattern of stylised tulips accompanied him to the grave. Morris's fascination with patterns in the arts of Islamic lands belonged in a wider context. At the very same time, William de Morgan was copying such patterns on his vivid tiles, now collectors’ items, and the artist Frederic Leighton was adding an Arab Hall to his orientalising house in Holland Park, London, now the Leighton Museum. “Damascus rooms” were being installed for London patrons. Morris's knowledge came from reading books in English and from items seen out of their social and religious contexts. He never went to Asia, but his daughter May visited Morocco and Egypt and even wore a blend of Egyptian robes. In Egypt, May bought a nice pair of red slippers. When she embroidered a panel called Spring and Summer, she devised tulips in it in an oriental style. One chapter in the accompanying book tries to force these responses into a distorting, modish channel, mentioning “cultural appropriation”, with “Imperialism” thrown into the mix, before the author graciously concludes that Morris’s resulting designs should not be “cancelled”. In arts and crafts one sight can lead innocently to another. Creative misunderstanding is frequent. As for those slippers, May Morris bought them in a bazaar where a local seller was surely happy to find a client and be paid. In gardens our tulips are not the tulips of early Turkish gardens, prototypes for the ones that Morris patterned. The nearest we can come to them in the modern trade is the horned tulip, Tulipa acuminata, but * NORTH 22 February/23 February 2025 (From left) A 19th-century embroidered wool and silk patchwork tent panel made in Rasht, Iran; “Wild Tulip’ block- printed wallpaper (1884), by William Morris for Morris & Co Birmingham Museums Trust; CHD Limited I have never kept it alive for more than two seasons in a garden. Instead, alerted by Morris, I will look more thoughtfully on carpet patterns as a springboard for gardens’ designs. Carpet and embroidery patterns have been applied in gardens to evergreen parterres, sometimes known as broderies. The favoured candidate for them has been evergreen box, but box moth and box blight have ruled it out until resistant varieties are on the market. Evergreen Euonymus japonicus Jean Hugues is taller and a darker green, but at present the best alternative. Instead of clipped parterres I could plan flat beds, seen from above, with a carpet pattern as an inspiration. A swirling line of, say, Kew Gardens, the single white rose, could flow through a surrounding contrast of a low evergreen. Ceanothus thyrsiflorus repens is hardy and dense except after an exceptionally cold winter. Tulips, of course, could grow up through the gaps in spring. The problem is that plants are not obedient to a pattern as they grow. They have to be clipped and shaped frequently. Carpet patterns have long been in gardens. I prefer to play with an older concept, an ‘enamelled lawn’ I prefer to play with an older concept, an “enamelled lawn”. Before lawnmowers existed, individual plants were spaced out in grass which was scythed or cut to control it. Individual mini clumps of low-growing irises, helianthemums, hardy geraniums or Michaelmas daises could “enamel” the grass in swirling patterns, breaking up its flatness. Seen from above, they look like a carpet, though they are maintainable only in a smallish area. So here is what the Morris exhibition has sown in my mind: try to “enamel” a pattern outdoors and look down on it in short grass. Keep peacocks out of the picture. Confine them indoors on silent tiles.
