METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: INTERNATIONAL Pee eee PERE ST CESS Pee See eee cee Pee ee Pee eee eee eee eee ee Pee eee Pee eee ...
ID: 107

CONTENT:
INTERNATIONAL Pee eee PERE ST CESS Pee See eee cee Pee ee Pee eee eee eee eee ee Pee eee Pee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee Pee eee eee eee ee eee ee eee eee ee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee Pee ee eee eee eee eee eee Pee eee eee Pee eee ee eee Pee ee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee Pee ee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee ee) EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE REE EE EEE EEE EERE EERE EEE EEE EEE EERE EE EERE EERE EERE EEE EERE EERE EEE EERE EE EERE EE EERE EEE EE EERE EEE REE EEE EERE EE EEE EE EEE EEE EERE EERE EEE CHEER EEE EEE EE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EERE EE EEE EEE CREE EEE EE EEE EEE EERE EERE EEE E EEE EEE EERE SERRE EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE DEERE EE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EES EERE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EERE EERE EEE EERE EH EE Tee ee eee eee Cee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee ee eee eee eee ee eee ee ee eee ee eee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee ee ee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee ee ee eee ee eee eee eee ee ee eee eee eee eee ee ee ee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee ee ee eee eee eee eee eee ee ee ee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee Pee ee eee eee ee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee Scholz faces attacks from all sides in Germany s industrial heartland Widespread unrest over immigration and the economy likely to hit chancellor's party in polls ANNE-SYLVAINE CHASSANY — BOCHUM In Bochum, a town in the German indus- trial Ruhr valley, cheesemonger Heike Wischnewski is contemplating casting her ballot for the far-right Alternative for Germany in Sunday’s election. The 60-year-old, whose parents emi- grated from Poland, is a Social Demo- crat at heart. “I would like to vote for the SPD again,” she said. But the problem is its candidate, Chancellor Olaf Scholz. “When I listen to Scholz, it’s ‘we did this, we’ve done that’. And everyone is wondering: where? You would think he lives in another world.” While she is wary of extremists in the AfD, Wischnewski said she “would like to believe Alice Weidel”, the party leader and chancellor candidate. “Work must pay off again. And when it comes to immigration, I am also of the opinion that anyone who wants to live here must do their part.” As the campaign draws to a close ahead of the federal elections, the mood in the Ruhr, an SPD stronghold that became the symbol of Germany’s post- war social-market economic model, highlights a sense of political upheaval in Europe’s largest democracy. Tomorrow, the AfD could for the first time win direct constituencies in the Ruhr, a region with high immigration and which has struggled with deindus- trialisation. Scholz, who triggered snap elections in November after pulling the plug on his unpopular coalition with the Liber- als and the Greens, could lead his party to its worst result since 1887 with a mea- gre 15 per cent. Such a disastrous result for the party of former chancellors Willy Brandt, Hel- mut Schmidt and Gerhard Schréder would underline a rightwing shift in Europe's biggest economy, which has stagnated for the past two years. While the country’s economic woes are a con- cern for voters, the election campaign has been dominated by a fraught debate over migration heightened by a series of deadly attacks by migrants. A weak SPD would also herald greater difficulties for conservative leader Frie- drich Merz to form a stable coalition. Merz’s Christian Democratic Union (CDU) and its Bavarian sister party, the CSU, are predicted to win the election with about 30 per cent of = the vote and have ruled out part- © nering with the AfD, which is likely “7 to come in second and secure its best “ result yet with roughly 20 per cent. Merz's coalition-building could be complicated if smaller parties reach the 5 per cent vote threshold and enter the Bundestag at a time when Germany needs to tackle urgent issues, such as Donald Trump’s overtures to Russia about ending the war in Ukraine with- out involving any European partners. One such party could be far-left Die Linke, which has experienced a late surge in support and is predicted to win about 6 per cent of the vote. A Forsa poll this week showed a coalition between the SPD and the CDU/CSU might not reach a majority in parliament. Professor Manfred Giillner at Forsa said he had never seen such a level of discontent with an incumbent chancel- lor and coalition. “The bottom line is extreme dissatisfaction with the coali- ——_. ea > ~ ee an ~ == -_ Nn ta oo Sree Downturn: tion,” he said. At the heart of Germany’s Thyssenkrupp’s democratic challenges lay the steady steel plant in erosion of mainstream parties, which Duisburg plans used to “cover a wide range of voters, to axe 40% of groups with different interests, bringing its workforce. them under one roof,” Giillner said. Daniel Zerbin “They have lost that ability.” of the AfD, right, The Ruhr region is a former coal-min- is hoping to ing bastion and home to steel conglom- win over voters erate Thyssenkrupp, whose 110-metre including Heike tall blast furnaces in its sprawling Duis- Wischnewski, burg plant have long been a source of pride among its workers, the Kruppi- below — Arne Piepke/FT aner. But the company, which is grap- pling with a downturn in the auto indus- try — its main client — and struggling to compete with cheap Chinese imports, has announced plans to slash 11,000 _ jobs in Duisburg, or 40 per cent of its workforce there. The region has experienced hardships before with the closures of its mines between the 1970s and 1990s. It has since attracted serv- ice-oriented jobs, notably around - - its three universities and logistics companies, but the Covid-19 pan- demic, followed by two years of eco- nomic downturn under Scholz’s coali- tion, has heightened political resent- ment in its poorest parts. Hans-Peter 100km 2Mapcreatorio | OSM.org VW Z 2 2 : 5 GERMANY > = » lu < Gelsenkirchen Berlin fl —— RUHR REGION Bochum Duisburg Noll, who chairs the Zollverein, a former coal complex closed in 1986 that now hosts a museum and start-ups, said the “big structures, the ones that looked after workers, that solved everything, don’t exist any more”. “Populism is unfortunately offering seemingly good solutions to the losers of this transformation,’ said Noll, the son and grandson of coal miners. These trends were playing out at Maria Sibylla Merian high school in Bochum this week, where students had organised a debate with local candi- dates. The AfD’s Daniel Zerbin explained to the more than 200 stu- dents, among them many first-time vot- ers, that the country must control “unbridled mass migration and decide who comes in here”. Die Linke candidate Cansin K6ktiirk then went on the offensive. Pointing to police data showing there was no rela- tive increase in migrant-led crime in the country, she mocked Zerbin, a criminol- ogist. “Don’t let yourself be told crap,” she told the students. Serdar Yiiksel, the constituency’s SPD “The SPD has become a party of higher earners. It is no longer a workers party in the classic sense Serdar Yiiksel. SPD candidate TORR e EEE OE SS CUCU TOPOS S CECT CEC ESCO S TE COTE eee Cee Cee CeCe CET Cee Tee Teese eT Cee eT Cee ee Tere Cece Cee eee Cee eee Tee eT Pee ee Tree eee eT eee ee eee e eee eee eee ere Pee ee eT eee ee Tee ce eee eee eee eee ee Tee eee eee ere eee eee eee eee) OPPO PPPS Cee P PPP eee Pee ee eee eee Pee eee eee Pee eee ee eee eee Pree eee eee ee eee eee ee eee eee Pee eee eee ee Pee ee eee eee Pee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee Tee eee eee Cee eee eee ees Ce eee eee eee eee Coe eee eee Cees Cee e Tee eee eee Cee eee eee ee es CeCe eee eee eee? Cee CCPC Cece Tee Pee eee ee Tee eee Pee ee Tee Te eT eee Ce ee eee CeCe eT Cee CCPC e Tee ees Cee CCPC Cece Cee ee Tee eee Cee eT Te ee ee Tee TC TT eee eee ee cee eee ee ee ees) Agriculture EU wants manure to replace Russian fertiliser ANDY BOUNDS — BRUSSELS The EU wants to replace at least some of the fertiliser it imports from Russia with products processed from “home- grown” animal dung and urine to reduce revenues going to Moscow's war machine. Christophe Hansen, the agriculture commissioner, told journalists that manure-based fertiliser could reduce dependency on imported chemical fer- tilisers, and was cheaper than artificial equivalents, which require a lot of energy to produce. “The livestock sector can provide a positive input to the circular economy — that is domestically grown and doesn’t need to come from outside and is not based on high energy prices like gas,” he said. “We need to see the opportunities as well [as the challenges |.” Manure and food waste can also be tapped for biogas as an alternative source of energy, with the EU seeking eventually to cut all gas supplies from Russia, once its biggest supplier. Russia has in effect continued to export its gas through fertiliser produc- tion, the EU fertiliser industry claims. Large amounts of gas are needed to pro- duce ammonia used in fertilisers. High gas prices have also made domestic fer- tilisers uncompetitive, hitting jobs. Last month the European Commis- sion proposed tariffs on Russian ferti- liser imports. Russia has captured 30 per cent of the imported fertiliser mar- ket in the EU, up from 17 per cent in late 2022. Other big suppliers include Morocco and Egypt. Farmers bought ‘The livestock sector can provide a positive input to the circular economy Christophe Hansen, commissioner 5.7mn tonnes worth €1.9bn from Russia in 2024, according to Eurostat. The use of Renure, short for “recov- ered nitrogen from manure”, would cut fertiliser costs by nearly 5 per cent in livestock regions, according to a study by Dutch and Belgian academics. Brussels has restricted how much manure can be spread on fields, because its high nitrogen content runs off into water courses. The Netherlands, a small country with intensive livestock holdings, was forced by acourt judgment to cut its use. The Commission is expected this year to approve the use of Renure, which is treated to reduce its nitrogen content, after Dutch government lobbying. The Commission’s “Vision for Agri- culture” paper published on Wednesday says that it would be a “win-win” for the environment and climate “through the support for the uptake of low-carbon fertilisers and recycled nutrients, such as Renure and digestate after appropri- ate treatment and their efficient use”. Jessika Roswall, the environment commissioner in charge of reforming the directive that limits nitrogen emis- sions, told the Financial Times: “Manag- ing nutrients more effectively is essen- tial to make agriculture future- proof ... Iam working with member states to build a majority for a balanced treatment of Renure, and I am exchang- ing with countries and stakeholders concerned to tackle pollution hotspots.” Preservation group WWE criticised the plans, saying the Commission did not “intend to step up efforts to reduce pesticide and fertiliser use, which is con- cerning given worsening water quality — a threat to our health — caused by agriculture and nitrogen pollution”. lawmaker, then asked those who had arrived in Germany in the past decade to stand up. After a handful of students did so hesitantly, he asked those of immigrant descent to join. All but a few rose. “You wouldn't be here if the AfD governed in this country!” Yiiksel said as the crowd erupted in applause. The AfD was seeking to lure the work- ers who no longer feel represented by the SPD, Zerbin said after the panel. “The SPD has become a party of higher earners,” said the former Afghanistan veteran, whose father worked in the mining industry. “It is no longer a work- ers’ party in the classic sense.” Yiiksel, whose Kurdish father emi- grated from Turkey to work at Thys- senkrupp in 1964, said the fraught migration debate was fuelling the AfD. In 2015, Chancellor Angela Merkel wel- comed nearly Imn asylum seekers from Syria, Afghanistan and other countries, saying “we can do this”, Yiiksel recalled. “But she didn’t say how.” The pandemic lockdowns and Russia’s war in Ukraine had compounded resentment and fears, he said. “Many come to us and say: ‘you are the warmongers. Olaf Scholz is tak- ing us to the third world war’.” While Yiiksel is in a relatively safe seat, his SPD colleague Markus Tons is in trouble in Gelsenkirchen, a town with higher unemployment in the northern rim of the Ruhr area, which could flip to the AfD. The 61-year-old MP said he was bracing for a nationwide “debacle” for his party tomorrow. His town, Tons said, had suffered from a high influx of migrants. He lob- bied in Berlin for extra funds, but “it took too long, two and a half years” to figure out “who was in charge”, he said in a swipe at Scholz’s government. “People say ‘we want solutions now’ — we're offering something too late, and now the coalition is over.” eee Pee Pee Pe PCP ee Cee Pee eee ee eee eee ee eee ee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee CEES EEE EERE EERE EEE HEE EEE EERE EEE EE HERE EERE RE REE EEE EEE CEE EEE EEE EERE EERE EERE EERE EEE EEE EEE REE EERE EEE ERE REE EERE Presidential campaign Polish parties accuse each other of plans to interfere in elections
