METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: YOUR OPINION COUNTS Tell us what you think of Life & Arts and what you'd like to see in the futur...
ID: 160

CONTENT:
YOUR OPINION COUNTS Tell us what you think of Life & Arts and what you'd like to see in the future. Take part in our readers’ survey today and you'll automatically be entered into our prize draw with a chance to win £350". Scan to take part or visit ft.com/FTLife&ArtsSurvey Participants must be 18 years old or over. The prize draw is only open to those who complete the survey in full. Closing date: 11th March 2025 at 24:00 GMT. Please see ft.com/FT Life&Arts2025T&C for full T&Cs. 22 February/23 February 2025 One consolation of getting older is that life starts to reveal itself as reassuringly pendular. When you are on your third recession, you know not to take the next boom too seriously. In sport, even a Manchester United or an Arsenal win titles in bursts, then recede for decades as hubris leads to poor decisions. The old line about Chinese history (“the empire, long divided, must unite; long united, must divide”) has a universal ring to it, because the cyclicality it describes applies to lots of things. A bad Bordeaux vintage is a trusty predictor of a great one fairly soon. Politics might be the ultimate case in point. Public opinion is often “thermostatic”, in that it starts moving right once a government of the left is elected, and vice versa, hence the high noon of woke after Donald Trump entered office. Whether this is fickleness or prudence, it gives you a sense of how the coming years will play out. Having rejected woke, voters will be increasingly protective of other liberal gains. Misreading this, and high on themselves, conservatives will end up weirding people out in a major way. We can’t predict the exact form of the over-reach — the right’s equivalent of Defund the Police — but some fatal gilding of the lily is coming. These people don’t know how to take Yes for an answer. It is a wonder that such enthusiasts for western culture should ignore one dictum of it, inscribed on the Temple of Apollo as an eternal warning. “Nothing in excess.” janan.ganesh@ft.com Saturday 22 February / Sunday 23 February 2025 PROPER IY ousec&oHome FT Weekend
