METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: LIFE BACK PAGE Agencies that resign on behalf of dissatisfied employees are putting pressure on J...
ID: 132

CONTENT:
LIFE BACK PAGE Agencies that resign on behalf of dissatisfied employees are putting pressure on Japanese companies — and exposing tensions in a country where the intergenerational contract is breaking down, writes Leo Lewis na heaving weekend after- noon in early January, a large truck plastered with the image of a bow-tied albatross wearing a top hat rumbles through the glare and glamour of Tokyo's Shibuya district. A pounding bassline, an insistent jin- gle and a singsong schoolgirl voice chant into the mill of millennial and Genera- tion Z Japanese who have come here to shop, eat, mingle and mooch. “Enough is enough! You only live once! I can’t leave. I want to leave!” This is quiet quitting, at top volume. The truck stops at traffic lights as its central pitch — to some a message of subversion, to others of salvation — reaches a climax. “Resignation .. . Amazing!” Many younger Japanese already know what the truck is advertising: a taishoku daikou service where you pay a proxy to resign on your behalf. The service, pio- neered around a decade ago but expanded since the pandemic, is of a type that is reckoned to be used by thou- sands of people across the country every year. Prices vary but in this case, fora flat fee of ¥22,000 ($147), an agent will make the call and handle the paperwork so you don't have to. “Could I just resign and save myself the money? I could, but this was so much easier,” says one 35-year-old resi- dent of Yokohama who used an agency to resign from the taxi company he worked for until last November. “I could just switch off and not worry.” Two days before the truck’s January visit to Shibuya, the company advertis- ing on its side, Albatross, said it had Illustrations by Cat O’Neil resigned on behalf of more than 60 full-time employees and a dozen part- timers. Other agencies say they handle several hundred cases each month. Albatross, through its adverts, is proba- bly the most prominent player, but there are others such as EXIT and Watashi NEXT that have barged into the public consciousness. “It’s interesting how things have evolved over the past two years or so,” says one Tokyo-based agent. “More and more companies are less surprised when they receive a call from an agent repre- senting one of their employees. They ve moved from demanding to speak to the employee, which we of course decline, to asking what the grievance had been. It’s become more normal.” The resignation agencies have emerged to some extent as a direct BOOKS PAGE 10 answer to the intricacies of Japanese tra- dition and social conventions — the per- formative modes of address, hierarchy and other issues that younger genera- tions increasingly find intolerable. The pitch is broadly similar: they offer to handle communications with the employer, the blowback, the return of company property and any paperwork or financial issues outstanding. Employ- ers may often claim they havea right to a significant notice period, says the manager of one agency: the reality is that the combination of unclaimed leave, overtime and Japanese law are strongly on the side of the employee. But it is here that the proxy agencies themselves are vulnerable to the sug- gestion that they are operating in a grey area. Behind the flashiness and the offer of a quick fix is a murky industry that some suspect is ripe for acrackdown. The sector has fierce critics, including lawyers who accuse some agencies of exploiting customers and exceeding their authority. One employment law- yer described the activities of the doz- ens of agencies currently operating in Japan as the “predictable rule-break- ing” of an industry in its infancy. Online chatter suggests that, rather than the effortless break they have paid for, some customers have ended up with greater headaches by engaging a proxy. And as the agencies’ numbers have swollen, so have the concerns that, in their offer to handle everything, the proxies are taking on more responsibil- ity than they are legally entitled to. A former public prosecutor told me that he believes at least 18 resigna- tion agencies around Japan have acted outside their proper legal authority. The issue is also on the radar of the powerful Tokyo Bar Association. A crackdown on the proxies may indeed be imminent and could threaten plenty with extinction, say people close to the Ministry of Justice, who add that they are waiting to see if a criti- cal mass of dissatisfied customers has yet emerged. TRAVEL PAGE 7 Janan Ganesh Rise of the machines An island love affair | Vance, Badenoch and the Big Tech and Al's Corsica in the footsteps | anti-woke overcorrection new world order of Dorothy Carrington Follow us on Instagram @ft_weekend For all the potential legal challenges, both the existence of resignation agen- cies and the demand that keeps them in business is fascinating. Because there is more to these services than just conven- ience and expediency. Behind the slo- gans, anew normal of worker power has been developing, undermining decades of convention and forcing companies into a rethink of how to attract and retain staff in atight labour market. The fundamental drivers extend far beyond Japan. Many countries are expe- riencing a generational shift in attitudes towards work, the desirability of face- to-face communication and the calculus of what the workplace and worker owe each other. The same generations also live in permanent, pushy proximity to the question of how much life can and should be led online. Even so, younger Japanese have a dis- tinctive wall of cultural rigidities to push against. Japanese companies, say The sector has fierce critics, including lawyers who accuse some proxy agencies of exceeding their authority sociologists, have for many years exploited their ability to make employ- ees feel guilty about letting the company or colleagues down. That has contrib- uted, they add, to a range of workplace issues, including notoriously long hours and instances of karoshi, death by over- work. It is the fear of being made to feel guilty, says the founder of an agency based in western Japan, that causes so many people initially to put off resign- ing, and then to turn to the resignation agencies as a way through that. They could in theory just resign for themselves, but the forces of social awkwardness are formidable. They might be confronted by bosses begging them to stay “just until this project is done”, or by snarls that they are putting the company and colleagues in a difficult situation. Many say they simply cannot be bothered to go through the process of answering the question “why are you leaving?”, often because the truthful answer would involve a catalogue of ways in which Pantianed ‘
