METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: ON ANTIHEROES ms The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie By Muriel Spark (1961) This is the tragicomic stor...
ID: 82

CONTENT:
ON ANTIHEROES ms The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie By Muriel Spark (1961) This is the tragicomic story of a teacher, Jean Brodie, at an all-girls school in 1930s Edin- burgh. At the center of Muriel Spark’s brilliant novel “The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie” is the “Brodie ne a ESSER EN rhea raed om a SHINING ARMOR ‘Don Quixote’ (ca. 1868) by Honoré Daumier. Jonathan Ames The author, most recently, of the novel ‘Karma Doll’ set”—a group of girls who are their teacher’s favorites. But Miss Brodie’s preferred subject is herself. She’s one of those eccentric narcissists who can declaim so charmingly about life and the arts, where every utterance is like a Wildean aphorism: “To me educa- tion is a leading out of what is already there in the pupil’s soul.” But narcis- sists can be quite cruel and destruc- tive, oblivious as they are, with their lack of empathy, to the pain they cause others. Which is what makes Miss Brodie a delusional antihero: We are charmed by her and want to love her, but her blind spots are tragic, for herself and for the girls whose lives she hopes to shape and influence.“ Give me a girl at an impressionable age and she is mine for life.” seize the commanding heights of the digital economy” and rapidly building up a military to push the U.S. back across the Pacific. And so when US. intelligence warned that the Chinese telecommuni- cations company Huawei was rolling out advanced communications systems around the world with a hidden dan- ger—a “backdoor” that could enable Beijing to download confidential data at will—the first Trump administration convinced companies in the U.S. and its ally countries to swear off Huawei. Sanctions followed, denying Huawei access to advanced American computer chips. Under the Biden administration, this approach evolved into a policy of denying such chips to all Chinese companies. The Biden administration’s stated objective was to ensure that the U.S. maintains “as large of a lead as possi- ble” on critical technologies, restrain- ing China’s ability to harness artificial intelligence and thus hinder its rapid military buildup. The U.S. campaign is backed by a drive to shift supply chains and investment away from China. Despite its many other differences with the first Trump administration, the Biden administration not only main- tained continuity with its predeces- sor in its stance on China but further tightened the chokepoints. Beijing decries these efforts as a campaign to “contain China” and is pushing back. Some argue that the vitality of the U.S. tech sector will ensure that a five-year gap between U.S. and Chinese technologies can be maintained. Others argue that China is pouring huge resources into shortening the gap and building up its own capa- bilities. According to some estimates, China awards more than 10 times as a = | TONG/BEUING YOUTH DAILY/GETTY IMAGES i a) a many engineering degrees a year as the U.S. Confidence about the durabil- ity of the U.S. lead was abruptly shaken last month by the Chinese company DeepSeek’s release of its advanced arti- ficial-intelligence model. Adding to the risks is Beijing’s ambi- tion to absorb Taiwan, where 90% of the world’s advanced computer | a. DELIVERY A train carrying chips are fabricated. China is gearing up for new rounds of economic warfare in other ways—for instance, denying American companies access to Chinese markets and banning the export to the U.S. of rare-earth materials, which are used in everything from semiconduc- tors to batteries and weapons systems. To justify its ban, Beijing now deploys a term borrowed from the U.S., holding back rare-earth materials, it says, electrical because of “dual use”—by the military as well as civilians. Mr. Fishman acknowledges that, as countries seek to reduce their evident vulnerabilities, chokepoints can gradu- ally lose their potency. Russia and China are trying to stick to rubles and yuan in their countries’ burgeoning bilateral trade. A global embrace of appliances, construction materials, clothing and other goods departs for Moscow from Beijing in 2024. cryptocurrencies could further reduce the primacy of the dollar. With “Chokepoints,” Mr. Fishman has provided a thorough analysis of what, for now, continues to be the power of that primacy. Curiously, how- ever, the author does not address the many lessons of economic warfare learned during the Cold War, when the U.S. and its allies sought to control exports to the Soviet bloc. He also fails The Hunter By Richard Stark (1962) Richard Stark is a pseudonym for the prolific pulp writer Donald Westlake, who was writing so many books in the 1950s and ’60s that he needed multi- ple pen names to avoid flooding the market with too much Westlake. As Stark, he created one of the great sociopathic antiheroes of all time: Parker, a ruthless professional thief who feasts off of banks and armored cars and jewelry stores like a jackal culling a herd of zebra. “The Hunter,” the first of 24 Parker novels, is a story of revenge and retribution: A fellow heister believes he has killed Parker and steals his cut of a heist, leaving him for dead; but Parker survives and tracks the man down in New York to get his money back. One of the delights of “The Hunter” is Stark’s prose, which reads as if written with a rivet gun instead of a typewriter: “His hands, swinging curve-fingered at his sides, looked like they were molded of brown clay by a sculptor who thought big and liked veins,” Stark writes of Parker. “His mouth was a quick stroke, bloodless.” Inside Mr. Enderby By Anthony Burgess (1963) Anthony Burgess is a joyful wordsmith. Every sentence of “Inside Mr. Enderby,” a novel about a dyspeptic and flatulent poet, is full of exuberant wordplay. “He wore a scarf colored like a Nea- politan ice; his overcoat was a tightly- belted Melton; he was shielded from heaven by a Basque beret.” Mean- while, Burgess’s protagonist, EX. Enderby, composes his verses while sitting on the toilet, whether he needs to use it or not: “In this spinning room, reduced to a common noun.... The pentecostal sperm came hissing down.” When we meet Enderby, he’s a recluse happily writing his poems on the commode, but a series of calami- tous events—a disastrous love affair, a stolen poem, an escape to Morocco as a fugitive—sends him on the most improbable adventure to reclaim his muse, which has abandoned him. Enderby is quite the delusional anti- hero, generating havoc and mayhem wherever he goes, yet his force of will and devotion to poetry make him admirable, and the book is quite sim- ply a comedic tour de force, so good that Burgess subsequently wrote three more books about the windy poet, needing to give him more adventures in which he could raise a stink. to define “neoliberal dogma,” even though on occasion he joins the cur- rent fashion of deriding it—as if low deficits, low inflation, the avoidance of overregulation and the growth benefits of the global economy are all to be dis- counted. On Iran, he skims over the other powerful factor that brought the country to the negotiating table—the U.S. shale revolution. As the economic chokepoints were closing on Tehran, the physical valves were opening on the U.S. oil fields. Oil production surged, to the mullahs’ disbelief, more than compensating for the Iranian oil that was being shut out of the mar- ket—making Iran’s dire economic situ- ation even worse. “Chokepoints” appears at a moment when a new twist to economic warfare is at hand: Mr. Trump’s penchant for tariffs, marking a reversion from the long trend toward trade liberalization that began with the revulsion against the trade wars of the 1930s. The sec- ond Trump administration is not hesi- tating to impose and brandish tariffs against both allies and adversaries, whether to offset trade deficits or to achieve other policy goals. At the same time, Moscow is already making clear in negotiations over its war against Ukraine that the removal of all sanc- tions is a primary objective. Altogether, the current juncture makes “Chokepoints” a timely guide to the fragmenting of the global economy and the rising tensions that go with it. We are already in the age of economic warfare; the question is whether we can avoid an era of escalation. Mr. Yergin, the vice chairman of S&P Global, is the author of “The Prize,” “The Quest” and “The New Map.” THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. KKK *K Saturday/Sunday, February 22 - 23, 2025 | C9 BOOKS ‘Our alliance, based on ties of historic friendship and unity of purpose, has withstood the tests of the past. May it grow ever stronger.’ —JOHN F. KENNEDY Wa, ANNABELLE CHIH/GETTY IMAGES Why Taiwan Matters
