METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: By Jon MooALLEM he UCLA economist Donald Shoup spent his career studying parking. Virtually alone...
ID: 79

CONTENT:
By Jon MooALLEM he UCLA economist Donald Shoup spent his career studying parking. Virtually alone in the dreary-seeming field, he studied parking with unflagging rigor and a kind of revolutionary zeal for 60 years. Eventually, his data and insights started to reshape the way cities function and feel. Shoup, who died Feb. 6 in Los Angeles at age 86, was someone most people never heard of but whom certain people talk about all the time. His influence has been likened to that of Robert Moses and Jane Ja- cobs, two colossuses of American urban planning, but he’s also been compared seriously to Pythagoras and Einstein and referred to as “a prophet” and “a parking rock star.” His acolytes and evangelists, known as Shoupistas, call him “Shoup Dogg.” Shoup appreciated how funny this sounds. “Nothing is more pedestrian than parking,” he often joked. Ev- eryone else is focused on traffic, Shoup told the web- site Streetsblog. “I thought I could find something useful if I studied what cars do for 95% of the time, which is park.” Shoup was born on Aug. 24, 1938, in Long Beach, Calif., and spent much of his childhood in Hawaii, where his dad was stationed in the Navy. “My earliest memory was the attack on Pearl Harbor, so every- thing’s been very calm since then,” he told Henry Grabar, author of “Paved Paradise.” Shoup studied electrical engineering at Yale Univer- sity, then transitioned into economics. In the mid-1960s, he was working in midtown Manhattan while completing a Ph.D. at Yale and noticed a paradox that everyone else took for granted. “Almost all cars were parking for free on some of the most valuable land on earth,” Shoup recalled on the podcast “Curb Enthusiasm.” In 2005, Shoup published his 700-plus page opus, “The High Cost of Free Parking,” based on four de- cades of research, most of it at UCLA. The book me- thodically dismantled unexamined beliefs of urban planners and drivers. Its core insight was simple, Shoup said: “The cost of parking doesn’t go away just because the driver doesn’t pay for it. Somebody has to pay for it. And that somebody is everybody.” Seven spaces for every car There are, by some estimates, two billion parking spots in America—about seven for every car, a total area equivalent to West Virginia. Most car trips in the US. result in parking free in one of those spots—a subsidy whose total value Shoup estimated as be- tween 1% and 4% of the nation’s GDP—“in the range of what we spend for Medicare or national defense,” he said in 2013. Parking, he said, was “maybe the most mismanaged of all our resources.” Shoup took special aim at municipal codes compel- ling developers to provide a minimum number of spots dictated by their building’s use, laid out in me- ticulous tables. In a 1999 paper, he scoffed at the no- tion that planners know the right parking required “for bingo parlors, junkyards, pet cemeteries, rifle ranges, slaughterhouses and every other land use.” More important, the space for parking pushed buildings apart, decreasing density, making neighbor- hoods less hospitable and walkable. And it was phe- nomenally expensive to build, on average $20,000 per space or more. The cost of that “free” parking rippled through a city, raising the costs of rent and shopping. “We have expensive housing for people and free parking for cars!” he cried out as a cartoon version of himself, appearing in an episode of the TV series “Adam Ruins Everything” in 2016. ‘Parking behaves like a gas’ Mandates for free or cheap parking stemmed from fears that people wouldn’t live or shop in an area that didn’t have enough. But Shoup demonstrated that fear was based on a misapprehension. “Most people think parking behaves like a liquid,” he wrote. “If the park- ing supply is squeezed in one place, cars will park somewhere else. But parking behaves more like a gas. The number of cars expands to fill the available space, and more parking leads to more cars.” When parking spots were free, people knocked themselves out trying to claim one. In one study, Shoup and his students made 248 car trips into Los Angeles’s Westwood Village and found they had to circle around F 2.5 times on average to find I thought I parking. Extrapolating, this could find meant that Angelenos were . driving an extra 950,000 miles SOmething a year within just that area, useful if enough to make 36 trips around ° the Earth. (Emulating his work, I studied the nonprofit Transportation what cars Alternatives found that 45% of drivers they stopped in Brook- do for 95% lyn’s Park Slope were circling of the time? for a place to park.) “A surprising amount of traf- fic isn’t caused by people who are on their way some- where,” Shoup concluded in 2007 column. “Rather, it is caused by those who have already arrived.” His prescriptions: End minimum parking require- ments, raise on-street parking prices in line with de- mand, and funnel the added revenue into upkeep and other public services for the immediate area as a “parking benefit district.” Pasadena, Calif., had already found that reinstalling parking meters was key to revitalizing a historic shop- ping district, but change elsewhere was slow, to Shoup’s surprise. “I don’t think he realized how long those changes would take, or how un-obvious they would be to other people,” said William Fulton, a for- mer student of Shoup’s who, as mayor of Ventura, Ca- lif., reintroduced parking meters downtown in 2010 af- ter a 40-year absence. But Shoup, then in his 70s, continued to build a quasi-cult following among urban planners, municipal officials and transportation and housing advocates. His work was esoteric and nerdy, and its implications could be incendiary, but his tone was always chatty, witty and charming. ‘Pm With Shoup’ With self-proclaimed Shoupistas making “I’m With Shoup” buttons and even Shoup-themed Valentine’s Day cards, Shoup’s celebrity in the field outpaced his impact for many years. But as former students dis- persed through local govern- ments and climbed the ranks, more Shoupian reforms took hold, particularly in the past 10 years. The Parking Reform Network, a nonprofit associated with Shoup, says that more than 3,000 cities have adopted at least some of his prescriptions and has mapped 99 places where minimum parking requirements have been utterly abandoned. Meanwhile, changes have swept across U.S. curbsides, as new technology in meters and ki- osks allows municipalities to track local demand and retool rates to pursue Shoup’s ideal of one or two vacant spots on every block. “Because of Don Shoup, there’s now an army of people who are out there trying to put that work into practice—and also his academic disciples who are teaching it to the next generation,” Ryan Russo, executive director of the Na- tional Association of City Transportation Officials, said in an interview. Then he began reading some of his favorite lines from a Shoup paper over the phone. FROM TOP: MAX HIMMELRICH FOR THE DAILY BRUIN; UCLA LUSKIN SCHOOL OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS Mandigo ROGER MANDIGO | 1939-2025 poses with ‘ and grew up in Pomona, Calif. A summer a McRib — me » working at an uncle’s hog farm in Ore- sandwichiina gon kindled Mandigo’s interest in the meat locker science behind the food chain. He began He E ial ab le d th e Me Rib ) ae he teaching at ONL. in 1966 and stayed for And Chicken Nuggets small sheep farm, where students could get experience tending animals. His gruff manner could intimidate students at first, but many grew to re- Nebraska By JaMEs R. HAGERTY items, but colleagues say he vere him. They bonded with Mandigo ) led research in UNL’s meat- on canoe trips along Nebraska’s Dismal professor's MANY PEOPLE WANT THEIR MEAT to _ science department that River; he always brought along big cool- technology come in shapes and sizes that fit neatly made them possible. That ers full of ingredients for camp dinners allows food into a bun. Roger Mandigo made a ca- work involved improving that one student described as “cowboy- reer out of obliging them. methods of adding ingredi- Mandigo, who died on Jan. 24 at the ents, such as salt and water, reshape meat age of 85, was a University of Nebraska- | and pummeling meat (often to make it Lincoln professor known for his exper- inside a tumbler that spins tise in restructured meat, produced by like a clothes dryer) to make more making odd bits of flesh adhere into con- __ sticky proteins come to the appea lj ng to venient shapes with palate-pleasing tex- surface. He also reduced the tures. It is the technology behind such salt needed for the process. CONSUMETS. menu items as chicken nuggets, the He commanded attention in lecture McRib at McDonald’s, deli ham and skin- halls and at meat-industry workshops less bratwurst. style gourmet.” He often took charge of cooking at university events. His special- ties included meringue desserts in the shape of swans and steaks matching the contours of the Nebraska map. Mandigo’s survivors include his wife of 54 years, Wanda (Nelson) Mandigo, and three children. In a eulogy, his son Sanders of Kentucky Fried Chicken and Kevin recalled, as a boy, once refusing to the late Ray Croc of McDonald’s. Man- eat his hush puppies at a Red Lobster with his enthusiasm and gesticulations, digo was praised for exploring “the use restaurant. His father asked what was The McRib, introduced in 1981 and sometimes slapping his arms to show of flaked meat pieces to make restruc- wrong with them. Kevin said he simply available sporadically on McDonald’s how meat should be treated. One of his tured products with improved texture, didn’t like them. menus, is a boneless pork patty molded tips was that a meat tumbler doesn’t appearance and functional properties.” His father insisted: “What is it you into the shape of a rib slab, topped with work well if you cram too much into it. Such techniques allow the meat industry don’t like? Is it too salty, too sweet? Too pickles, onions and barbecue sauce. Mandigo was inducted into the Meat to wring more value from otherwise hard, too soft? Too hot, too cold?” More stories at Mandigo (pronounced MAN-di-go) Industry Hall of Fame in 2010, when low-cost chunks of meat. Prof. Mandigo, his son concluded, “did WSJ.com/obituaries didn’t invent the McRib or those other other honorees included the late Harland Mandigo was born on April 21, 1939, not settle for easy or lazy answers.” companies to JACOB HANNAH/LINCOLN JOURNAL STAR sina Fond Farewell Flashpoint FAREWELL The novel that The island standing . announced in the way of China’s Hemingway’s arrival C12 reunification plans C9 = at SS READ ONLINE AT WSJ.COM/BOOKSHELF THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. x*«« Saturday/Sunday, February 22 - 23, 2025 | C7 n Gu ic) =< 2 > i< 7 i ~ a ra < =) a x a ir] a S The New Economic Warfare Want to exert geopolitical influence without mobilizing troops? It helps to have the currency everyone needs. Chokepoints
