METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: MORE MUFFIN TIPS > A higher baking tem- perature yields a higher dome. Sheehan will start. : her ...
ID: 97

CONTENT:
MORE MUFFIN TIPS > A higher baking tem- perature yields a higher dome. Sheehan will start. : her oven hotter, then lower the temperature mid-bake. Another dome-raising trick is to leave an empty well between each muffin in the tin. That’s how bak- eries do it, Jullapat says. : DB Tutak endorses glu- ten-free almond flour for flavor and moisture; even if you're gluten- EATING & DRINKING the beginning of your day.” Jullapat often adds nutrition- dense ingredients that “get you going in the morning,” such as whole-grain flours, oats, flax seeds, dried fruits or even dark chocolate. And muffins’ other vir- tues are many: They are portable. You can make them ahead. They will keep in a sealed container for four days’ worth of breakfasts; frozen, they’ll see you through up to three months. “A good baker will reveal a lot of talent in a muffin,” said Julla- pat, and the best indicator of that talent is a moist, well-structured crumb. “Don’t be afraid of a little extra leavening,” Sheehan advised. Although the rule of thumb is 1 teaspoon baking powder or \% tea- spoon baking soda per cup of flour, Sheehan puts 1 tablespoon powder plus % teaspoon soda in her Hot Pepper Jelly and Cream Cheese Muffins, which contain only 2 cups of flour. She also pours a full cup of buttermilk into her batter, to bolster the baking : tolerant, consider : alternative. : batter to tin. She : replacing up to 20% : of your flour with this : ® According to Jullapat, ‘an ice cream scoop is : best for transferring soda with an activating hit of acid. A good rise can also help achieve the high dome many muffin con- noisseurs insist on. Yet a flat top isn’t necessarily an indication of failure, and den- sity isn’t always a bad trait. Take Talia Tutak’s Chocolate Chip Muf- fins. At Sixteen Mill Bakeshop in Brooklyn, Tutak works her magic without gluten, animal products or processed sugars. Normally, eggs bring moisture to the party and also act as a binding and leav- ening agent. To avoid a dense, hard result, Tutak is generous with other sources of moisture, like avocado oil, coconut milk and maple syrup. “The mistake people make with gluten-free baking is that they don’t add enough liquid,” she said. “The gluten-free flours absorb so much.” And gluten-free baked goods continue to absorb that liq- uid as they cool. If you impatiently bite into one of her muffins hot, straight out of the oven, it will be “summy and gooey and dense,” : skips paper liners, : though: “Nonstick spray is the way.” : & If you're getting dry : results, Jullapat sug- : gests reducing the > amount of baking soda : in your batter. > Find recipes for these vegan, gluten-free chocolate chip muffins plus glazed Meyer lemon cornmeal muffins at WSJ.com/Eating. she cautioned. “Let it rest for about an hour for the texture to develop after baking.” Gluten or no, to keep things properly hydrated, use oil in your batter, in combination with butter for flavor. On occasion—as in her pepper-jelly muffins—Sheehan will go all-butter if she believes a bat- ter can stand up to it. Sometimes it depends on another, surprising moisturizing factor: sugar. Even a savory bake will benefit from “a tiny bit,” which will further help with browning and depth of flavor. And applying a pre-bake egg wash or deploying a post-bake jelly glaze will lock moisture into the muffin’s top without undermining its fundamental muffin-ness. < Hot Pepper Jelly And Cream Cheese Stuffed Muffins These stuffed muffins might seem fancy, but they’re a cinch. You get the sweet heat of the hot pepper jelly balanced by the creamy, tangy cream cheese. Total time 45 minutes Makes 12 muffins Cooking spray ¥% cup (113 grams) unsalted butter, melted and cooled slightly 3 tablespoons granulated sugar 3 large eggs 1 cup (227 grams) buttermilk 1 tablespoon baking powder ¥, teaspoon baking soda 1 teaspoon plus % teaspoon kosher salt ¥, teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 2 teaspoons red pepper flakes 2 cups (260 grams) all- purpose flour 6 ounces (170 grams) full-fat cream cheese, at room temperature ¥%, cup (105 grams) hot pepper jelly, plus more for brushing 1 large egg, at room temperature 1. Heat oven to 400 degrees. Generously grease a 12-well muffin tin with cooking spray. 2. In a large bowl, whisk to- gether butter and sugar. Whisk in 2 eggs, one at a time, then buttermilk. Vigorously whisk in baking powder, then baking soda, 1 teaspoon salt, pepper and pepper flakes. Use a flexible spatula to fold in flour. (The bat- ter will be thick.) 3. Fill each prepared muffin well with about 1% tablespoons bat- ter and use a small offset spat- ula to spread over bottom. Drop 1 tablespoon cream cheese into each batter-filled well. Spoon a scant 2 teaspoons jelly on top of cream cheese, and evenly cover with a generous 1% tablespoons batter per well. With damp fin- gers or a small offset spatula, spread batter to edges of wells. In a small bowl, use a fork to whisk together remaining egg and salt. Brush egg wash over top of each unbaked muffin. 4. Bake until a wooden skewer inserted in muffin (not the cheesy center) comes out with a moist crumb or two, 15-18 minutes. Let cool 5 minutes. To make a glaze, place a spoonful or two of jelly in a small bowl and stir to loosen. (If your jelly resists loosening, add water one teaspoon at a time.) Brush muffin tops with loosened jelly. Run a small off- set spatula or butter knife around edges of each well and gently pull warm muffins from tin and place on a serving plate. Serve immediately, with extra jelly and cream cheese. —Adapted from “Salty, Cheesy, Herby, Crispy Snackable Bakes” by Jessie Sheehan SLOW FOOD FAST / SATISFYING AND SEASONAL FOOD IN ABOUT 30 MINUTES Rotisserie-Chicken Soup With Olive-Oil Croutons “SOUPS WERE the first thing I made as a young chef,” said Charlie Mitchell. Every step of this chicken soup, his second Slow Food Fast recipe, imparts lessons learned. “Building a broth is important,” he said. “Tt needs depth and aroma.” As his broth simmers, Mitchell sautés the celery, onions and leeks he’ll add at the end. He skips the carrots: “I don’t want their sweetness.” For “a little creaminess,” he stirs in a bit of floury, buttery roux. The chicken bones sim- mer as long as his time allows, to extract all their collagen and bring body to the stock. The no-waste soup repurposes staples Mitchell often has on hand. Leftover roast chicken—or a supermarket rotisserie bird—gets an impressive second act. Old bread, the staler the better, torn into sub- stantial pieces and fried in olive oil, makes crisp, golden croutons. Along with texture, the croutons bring something sumptuous to this homey chicken soup, releasing an extra swirl of olive oil into the broth. Even at home, Mitchell cooks like a chef: “I think about flavor first.” —kitty Greenwald The chef Charlie Mitchell His restaurant Saga in New York City What he’s known for Working his way from Detroit to New York City and climbing the fine-dining ladder; earning a Michelin star early in his career; taking the helm at Saga after his mentor, James Kent, passed away. Total Time 35 minutes Serves 4 : 1. Make the soup: Pull : chicken meat off bones and : tear it into 1-inch pieces. leeks until onions are trans- : Keep carcass and meat sep- : lucent, about 5 minutes. : arate. Set both aside. : 4, Remove bones from stock. : 2. In a large pot over me- : Stir in sautéed vegetables > dium heat, melt butter. > and chicken meat. Simmer > Whisk in flour. Continue : until flavors meld, 5 minutes. : whisking to form a blond : Turn off heat and add salt : roux, 2-4 minutes. Whisk in and lemon juice to taste. : wine and cook off alcohol, : 5, Make the croutons: Set a : 2-3 minutes. Whisk in stock large skillet over medium- : and reserved bones. In- : high heat and add 3 table- onions : crease heat to medium-high : spoons oil. Once hot, add ¥, cup thinly sliced celery : and simmer, uncovered, un- : bread and toast both sides, ¥%, cup sliced leeks, white and : til flavors concentrate, at : shaking pan, until golden, 2-4 light-green parts only : least 20 minutes. Add more : minutes. Transfer croutons Kosher salt : stock as needed to keep : to a paper towel-lined plate 1 lemon, halved : bones submerged. : and season with salt. Ladle 2 cups sourdough, torn into: 3. Meanwhile, set a sauté : soup into bowls, top with bite-size pieces : pan over medium heat and =: warm croutons and serve. : add 2 tablespoons oil. Once hot, sauté onions, celery and 1 (3-4 pound) rotisserie chicken, skin removed 2%, tablespoons butter 1 tablespoon all-purpose flour ¥% cup dry white wine 6-8 cups chicken stock 5 tablespoons olive oil, plus more as needed ¥%, cup finely diced white ELIZABETH COETZEE/WSJ; FOOD STYLING BY DANA BONAGURA; PROP STYLING BY CARLA GONZALEZ-HART; MICHAEL HOEWELER (PORTRAIT) GO DEEP Leftover roast chicken—or a rotisserie bird picked up last- minute—gives this quick chicken soup profound slow-cooked flavor. THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. KKK *K Saturday/Sunday, February 22 - 23, 2025 | D9 PETE RYAN (2)
