METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: By YAROSLAV TROFIMOV ast July, Russian occupation au- thorities in the Ukrainian city of Luhansk ...
ID: 75

CONTENT:
By YAROSLAV TROFIMOV ast July, Russian occupation au- thorities in the Ukrainian city of Luhansk used a crane and dump truck to re- move a monument to the victims of the Holodomor, the state-engineered famine that the Kremlin unleashed in 1932-33 to subdue the restless Ukrainian country- side. The large granite cross in Luhansk had to go be- cause “it insulted the patri- otic feelings of the resi- dents,” explained the Russian-appointed acting mayor, Yana Pashchenko. Dozens of monuments to the Holodomor, which killed at least 3.9 million Ukrainians, have been destroyed in Rus- sian-occupied areas, along with many memorials to Ukrainian cultural figures ex- ecuted by the Soviet regime. The war that Russia is waging against Ukraine, and that President Trump says he’s determined to end by opening talks with the Kremlin, isn’t just about ter- ritorial gains or global power projection. It is, fun- damentally, a struggle over historical memory. Three years after the Russian inva- sion began on Feb. 24, 2022, it is the generational trauma of their country’s suffering under Russian and Soviet rule that motivates Ukrainians to keep defying a much more powerful enemy, despite mounting casualties. “We realize that, if we stop resisting, we will face exter- mination and genocide—just as it already happened in our past,” said Olena Styazhkina, a Ukrainian historian and writer. In 1926, Soviet Ukraine was home to 29 million people. By 1953, when Joseph Stalin died, it had lost almost half that number to famine, war and mass killing. Almost every Ukrainian today is a descendant of the survi- vors of those dark decades. The official Russian view of the Holodomor is that it was an unfortu- nate byproduct of Stalin’s otherwise justified industrialization policies. But the U.S. Congress and the Euro- pean Parliament have both recog- nized it as an act of genocide, in which Soviet authorities confiscated food and seeds in Ukrainian villages, forcing the residents into starvation and frequent cannibalism. Ukraine lost more than 10 mil- lion people in World War II, accord- ing to recent government esti- mates, including most of its Jewish population, exterminated in the Ho- locaust, and millions of soldiers who fought in the Red Army. Both the Nazi war machine and Soviet to- talitarianism were unsparing. When Kyiv, the Ukrainian capital, fell to the Germans in September 1941, the retreating Soviets booby- trapped the city center and turned much of it into a fireball, killing countless civilians alongside German officers. By the time the Soviets re- turned in October 1943, nearly half of Kyiv’s population was dead. As the rest of Europe engaged in post-war A memorial service for a fallen soldier in Kyiv on Nov. 30, 2024. Russia Wants to Erase Ukraine’s Future—And Its Past Famine, mass killings and other Soviet-era traumas make Ukraine determined not to return to Russian rule. reconstruction, Ukraine—especially in its western regions—was ravaged by a bloody insurgency that lasted for another decade. For centuries, the Russian Em- pire, and then the Soviet Union, con- trolled its Ukrainian subjects by hid- ing and distorting Ukraine’s history. The official narrative whitewashed or censored the atrocities of the past, portraying any Ukrainians who dared to support inde- pendence as traitors and Ukraine, the elimination was so com- plete that writers killed in the 1930s, such as Valerian Pidmohy]l- nyi and Mykola Khvylovy, re- mained unknown and unread until the country became independent in 1991. Most of them have still not been published in English. Mykhailo Boychuk, perhaps the most impor- tant Ukrainian painter of his genera- tion, was killed by the Soviets in 1937, and the vast ma- jority of his works were criminals. Putin wants destroyed. Today they Stalin initially fa- . are known only from vored the brief Ukrai- to rewrite grainy black-and-white nian cultural renais- Ukr. alnian photographs. sance of the 1920s, but 7 7 Speaking the truth in the next decade the history to fit about this history was a war on Ukrainian cul- the Russian crime under Soviet rule, ture reached new imperi al and Ukrainian intellec- heights. In the purges of : tuals remained in prison the 1930s, most of pr oject. well into the period of Ukraine’s __ intelligent- Mikhail —Gorbachev’s sia—novelists, theater perestroika. Vasyl Stus, directors, painters—were murdered, many at the Sandarmokh ravine in northern Russia, which became a mass killing site. Executioners were instructed to save ammunition by us- ing one bullet per two Ukrainian heads, lining up victims back to back. Many Russian writers of the pe- riod, such as poet Osip Man- delshtam, were also killed, while oth- ers, including Alexander Solzhenitsyn, spent many years in the Gulag. Still, their work gained worldwide fame, and even circulated underground in the Soviet Union. In one of the most important Ukrainian poets, died in a Soviet prison camp in late 1985. Russian forces disman- tled the monument to Stus in his hometown of Donetsk soon after oc- cupying it in 2014. Today, under President Vladimir Putin, Russia once again seeks to deny the Ukrainian people any sepa- rate culture or identity of its own. Russian propagandists openly talk about the need to eliminate educated Ukrainians, whom the Russian state news agency described in the first months of the war as carriers of the t
