METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: By CoLin KELLAHER Cash-strapped gene-ther- apy company Bluebird bio agreed to be acquired by pri-...
ID: 70

CONTENT:
By CoLin KELLAHER Cash-strapped gene-ther- apy company Bluebird bio agreed to be acquired by pri- vate-equity firms Carlyle Group and SK Capital Part- ners in a deal potentially worth up to $96 million. Bluebird on Friday said its investors will receive an initial $3 a share in cash under the deal, along with contingent value rights worth $6.84 a share that would be triggered if the gene-therapy company’s current product portfolio achieves $600 million in sales in any trailing 12-month pe- riod by the end of 2027. The initial consideration for Bluebird is well below Thurs- day’s closing price of $7.04 for the Somerville, Mass., com- pany, while the potential total value of up to $9.84 a share would represent a nearly 40% premium. Bluebird shares de- clined about 40% to close Fri- day at $4.08 after hitting a re- cord low of $4.00 earlier in the session. The stock is down some 90% from its 52-week high of $38.40 reached nearly a year ago. Bluebird said the deal, slated to close in the first half of the year, follows a review of strategic alternatives that in- cluded meeting with more than 70 potential investors and partners over five months. It also said the Food and Drug Administration’s final denial of the company’s ap- peal for a priority review voucher related to its Lyfgenia gene therapy. Bluebird, which had previ- ously warned of substantial doubt regarding its ability to continue as a going concern, said its board determined the company was at risk of de- faulting on its loan covenants absent a significant infusion of capital, and the Carlyle/SK Capital transaction was the only viable solution to gener- ate value for its shareholders. The company said Carlyle and SK Capital will provide primary capital to scale its commercial delivery of gene therapies for sickle-cell dis- ease, beta-thalassemia and ce- rebral adrenoleukodystrophy. Trump Media Approves Mergers, Acquisitions Fund
