METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: By STEVE MAGNESS single-minded, relent- less drive—that’s what it takes to be success- ful. Be “a...
ID: 77

CONTENT:
By STEVE MAGNESS single-minded, relent- less drive—that’s what it takes to be success- ful. Be “all in.” Burn the boats behind us. That message is ingrained in our society, from self-help books to Nike advertisements to social media influ- encers all telling us that we need to commit more and strive harder. The world continually sends the signal to narrowly define your goals and objec- tives and chase them with an obses- sive zeal. For much of my life, I believed in this credo. I was a phenom of an ath- lete, becoming the fastest high-school miler in the country my senior year, when I ran a 4:01 mile. In the midst of my ascent, writing in my high school running log, I left a comment with the typical self-dramatizing flair of a teenager: “I don’t go out, I don’t party, I don’t live the life of a normal teen. Is this even living? Why do it? I want to be the best. I will not settle for mediocrity. I will take my body through hell, testing its limits.” Teenage Steve was certainly obses- sive, and he was convinced that going all in was the key to success. He was mostly wrong. When my progress as a runner stalled, I spent time with a renowned sports psychologist. He told me a story about a world-class runner who had become stuck while struggling to make the transition from success in high school and college to Olympic- level performance. The psycholo- gist asked me, “Do you want to know what helped her break through?” I leaned forward, prepared to hear what surely was the secret to making the Olympics. He looked me in the eyes and replied, “knitting.” She had taken up knitting to relax and to take her mind off running. I was too young and stubborn to heed the advice. I doubled down—and never ran faster than my high-school record or broke a 4-minute mile. In the years since, working as a coach with elite performers, including Olympic medalist runners, I kept no- ticing that their single-minded fo- cus—their supposed superpower— was getting in their way. Their focus on achieving specific goals had be- come an obstacle, a constant, dis- abling signal that they were not mea- suring up. The relentless approach was backfiring. Research backs this up. According to a 15-year survey of more than 5,000 would-be entrepreneurs, those who kept their day jobs, instead of fo- cusing only on their own project, were 33% less likely to fail. Research- ers at Michigan State University looked at over 100 years of Nobel Prize-winning scientists and found that they were more likely than their less-accomplished peers to have cre-
