METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: FROM PAGE ONE Canada, U.S. Come To Blows Continued from Page One couraging them to lessen their d...
ID: 44

CONTENT:
FROM PAGE ONE Canada, U.S. Come To Blows Continued from Page One couraging them to lessen their dependence on the U.S. and to remind their American cus- tomers that both economies would suffer in a prolonged battle. He went to Europe to seek support from allies and make the case that if Canada isn’t safe from Trump’s threats, nobody is. Then the gloves literally came off. When the U.S. and Canada squared off in an inter- national tournament in Mon- treal last weekend, Canadian fans greeted the American na- tional anthem with boos. The moment the puck dropped to start the game, an epic brawl broke out on the ice and the penalty boxes filled up. “Tf there was any doubt about how bitter this rivalry’s becoming, it just got an- swered,” said Chris Cuthbert, an announcer for Canada’s Sportsnet channel. In the lead-up to an emo- tionally charged rematch for the tournament title on Thursday in Boston, Trump in a Truth Social post wished the American team luck and taunted the Canadian prime minister by inviting him to watch the game on television with U.S. governors gathered in Washington, D.C. After Canada won 3-2, Trudeau used a post on X to get in the last word, for now: “You can’t take our coun- try—and you can’t take our game.” New world It’s a stunning turn of events for two nations that have peacefully shared the world’s longest undefended border. They are major trad- ing partners, allies in war, and signatories to the same secu- rity alliances. Auto factories on both sides of the border share parts, manufacturing and labor. Canadians vacation in Flor- ida and own property in Ari- zona. Americans are grateful for Ryan Gosling, Joni Mitchell and Canada Goose parkas. Ca- nadian and American teams belong to one National Hockey League. Brady Tkachuk, one of the American players who brawled with Canadians on the ice Saturday night, plays for the Ottawa Senators. Now the relationship may never be the same. “We’re wrestling with a world in which America has become a clear and present danger to Canada’s sover- eignty,” said Gerald Butts, vice chairman of the Eurasia Group consulting firm and a former senior adviser to Trudeau. Butts said Trump made the 51st state comments a few times during his first term, but always in private. Trump’s aggressive tone and behavior have taken many Ca- nadians by surprise. But the is- sues the president says irritate him about Canada—including disputes over trade, border se- curity and defense—have been the source of long-simmering tensions between the two countries, said former diplo- mats and business leaders. There’s no indication that Trump wants to send tanks north, and Canada isn’t sta- tioning troops at its border. But officials in Ottawa said they are bracing for a possibly lengthy campaign in which the U.S. uses economic pressure to bend Canada to Trump’s will. Canadian leaders have threatened retaliatory tariffs, while making a diplomatic push by traveling south to meet with governors, legisla- tors and CEOs. Earlier this month, the 13 leaders of all of Canada’s provinces and terri- tories traveled to Washington to meet with members of Con- gress and Trump’s deputy chief of staff for legislative, political and public affairs, James Blair, and director of personnel, Sergio Gor. The Canadian premiers said the meetings went well. But after it was over, Blair posted, “To be clear, we never agreed that Canada would not be the 51st state.” Real impacts Trump’s threats have in- jected volatility and rancor into one of the most stable and powerful partnerships in the world. They’ve also ani- mated an aggressively patri- otic reaction that’s decidedly un-Canadian. Liquor shops in Ontario, Quebec and British Columbia boycotted American spirits. One of this winter’s most pop- ular fashion accessories is a blue “Canada is Not for Sale” baseball cap. Drew Dilkens, mayor of Windsor, Ontario, just across the river from Detroit, said he would pull his city’s sponsor- ship of the Detroit Grand Prix when tariffs go into effect, and earlier this month ended a bus service that shuttles 40,000 Canadians into Detroit each year. Those moves, he said, are retribution for President Trump’s threats. “We need to send a signal back,” said Dilk- ens. “Do you expect me to just take this? No way!” Trudeau has asked Ameri- cans to remember that Cana- dian soldiers died with them in France, the Korean Penin- sula and Afghanistan. “We don’t want to be here, we didn’t ask for this, but we will not back down,” Trudeau said during a nationally televised speech on Feb. 1, the day Trump announced he would levy across-the-board tariffs on Canada and Mexico. (Trump has since paused that plan until Mar. 4.) “Tt was a defining mo- ment,” said Lana Payne, presi- dent of Unifor, a private- sector union that represents ‘Canada is not for sale’ caps have been popular this year. Soap Fans’ Shot at Redemption Continued from Page One family,” said the 57-year-old paralegal from Chicago. His friends consider it corny and antiquated. As daytime soap operas died off over the past decades, fans became pop-culture out- casts. But that daily dose of drama has kept them loyal— and shunning friends’ ridi- cule—in the era of prestige TV, when new series with silver- screen budgets dominate con- versations and social-media feeds. Soap fans relish the hour spent watching the histri- onics of beautiful people and gossiping about the latest coma, kidnapping or affair on social media. Next week, they'll get a rare opportunity: For the first time in more than 25 years, a new daytime soap is coming to net- work television. “Beyond the Gates” marks another first with its predominantly Black cast, following the wealthy Du- pree family in a tony suburb of Washington, D.C. It will make its debut Monday on CBS and its streaming service, Para- mountt. “Tt’s a monumental occasion to be able to see it from day one,” said Shari Kessler. Like other soap lovers, the longtime fan of ABC’s “General Hospital” plans to tune in to the new show. She also sees it as a chance to support a beloved—but ail- ing and aging—genre. People often react to her de- votion to “General Hospital” by saying, “My mom still watches that,” Kessler said. She is quick to point out to naysayers that today’s soaps aren’t all over- the-top melodramatic tropes. They also include story lines that resonate with a modern audience, such as_ mental- health struggles, teen romance and bullying. “We have to keep the soap operas alive,” said the 53-year- old East Brunswick, N.J., resi- dent. “Having a new soap start is uplifting the genre.” Fans aren’t the only ones doing a victory lap. “After 25 years, to get a new one is a statement from the network that the genre is still vital,” said Ken Corday, executive pro- ducer of “Days Of Our Lives,” which started on NBC in 1965. Convincing younger genera- tions that a soap opera can be glossy and compelling is one of the challenges facing “Beyond the Gates” executive producer Sheila Ducksworth and her team. Part of their strategy to attract new viewers is making the show inclusive. “There’s never been an hourlong, predominantly black soap opera on U.S. daytime television, and we’re looking to make a mark with that,” said Ducksworth, who is also presi- dent of the CBS Studios- NAACP venture behind “Be- yond the Gates.” The team hopes compelling, modern characters and plots will convince younger viewers to commit to a five-day-a-week show—which for teens and 20- somethings is the antithesis of the quick hits they’re used to watching on YouTube and other social media. Changing viewing habits are a key reason so many soaps 320,000 automotive and other workers in Canada. She watched the speech in Toronto with her husband and 23-year- old daughter, to see how Can- ada would handle what she called an “unprovoked attack on Canada’s economy and its workers.” Even if Trump never im- poses blanket tariffs, the rhet- oric of the past month is al- ready pushing Canada to rethink its dependence on the world’s largest economy, which receives more than 75% of Canada’s goods exports. “There’s no turning back at this moment,” Payne said. The threats already have had real impacts. South Shore Furniture, a manufacturer based in Quebec, laid off 115 workers in February, citing the tariff threat. South Shore gets 70% of its revenue from the U.S., but The Trump ad- ministration’s repeated threats encouraged the com- pany’s buyers to buy more from Asian markets, which hurt business, the company said. The chief executive of Trump has taunted Prime Minister Justin Trudeau by calling him ‘governor. The first game between the two nations had multiple fights. Canadian airline West Jet said the number of Canadians booking trips to the U.S. fell 25% in the first couple of weeks of February. Hard feelings Trump began by attacking Canada for allegedly failing to prevent fentanyl and unau- thorized immigrants from en- tering the U.S., but his critique has escalated. He claims the U.S.’s annual “subsidy” of Can- ada amounts to $200 billion, after accounting for a goods trade deficit that totaled $63 billion in 2024 and the money the U.S. contributes to joint de- fense of the countries, espe- cially in the Arctic. Although Canada is one of NATO’s founding members, it doesn’t meet the alliance’s goal of spending at least 2% of GDP on defense, a funding gap that has long irritated the president. On Super Bowl Sunday, Trump said Canada stole its auto industry from the U.S., and threatened to hit back with tariffs on Canadian-made vehi- cles, many of which are sold in the U.S. He said Canada would fail if the U.S. pulled its defense support and put tariffs on au- tos. “If we do that, they’re not viable as a country,” Trump said on Air Force One. “It’s frustrating,” said Da- vid MacNaughton, the former Canadian ambassador to the U.S., who helped negotiate the U.S.-Mexico-Canada trade pact, USMCA, during Trump’s first term. “What is it that they want? This is what has got Canadians so angry.” Canada’s right-leaning for- mer prime minister, Stephen Harper, told an audience at a book launch in Ottawa this month that he would accept “any level of damage” to keep Canada independent. “I would be prepared to impoverish the country and not be annexed, if that was the option we’re fac- ing,” said Harper, according to people who heard his remarks. Some Americans are also confused to find themselves in a war of words with a neigh- bor that has always seemed relentlessly benign—America’s own Ned Flanders. “You’ve got a country FROM TOP: KATHERINE KY CHENG/GETTY IMAGES; MINAS PANAGIOTAKIS/GETTY IMAGES; BLAIR GABLE/REUTERS you’ve been best buddies with, or good buddies. Everything has been just fine. So why would you say stuff like that?” asked Heidi Alford, a librarian in Shelby, Mont., near the Ca- nadian border. Reports of Canadians boo- ing the U.S. national anthem really concerned her. “I hope it doesn’t sour people, but I don’t know,” she said of Trump’s threats. “I think there’s going to be some hard feelings.” The close ties have made Trump’s threats all the more hurtful, said Jonathan Wilkin- son, Canada’s Minister of En- ergy and Natural Resources. The relationship, he fears, has suffered serious harm. “Tt’s a fundamental shock to the psyche,” said Wilkinson. “Tt will leave a residual ques- tion in people’s’ minds whether in the long-term we can fully trust the U.S.” Wake-up call Canada and the U.S. have weathered past spats. When the U.S. hiked import tariffs under the 1930 Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act to protect American farmers, Canada _ retaliated with higher tariffs on items including eggs, causing U.S. egg exports to plummet, ac- cording to Douglas Irwin, an economics professor at Dart- mouth College. Relations warmed as the al- lies fought alongside each other during World War II, then deepened with a 1965 pact that removed most tariffs on the automotive trade. The countries signed their first comprehensive free-trade agreement in 1988, which was later expanded to include Mexico and renamed Nafta. During his first term Trump forced a renegotiation of the deal, which became USMCA. Some Canadians see the moment as a wake-up call. Canada’s leaders have taken American largess for granted for too long and haven’t adapted to a changing world, said Jim Balsillie, the former chairman and co-CEO of Re- search In Motion, maker of the BlackBerry mobile phone. “They held naive and senti- mental views while the global economic order was founda- tionally reshaping in front of their eyes over the last two decades,” he said. Others say that Canada has left itself vulnerable to an ag- gressive president by neglect- ing to deal with irritants be- tween the two countries. “There are issues that need to be dealt with and they de- serve to be dealt with,” said David Cohen, who acted as the U.S.’s ambassador to Canada under Joe Biden. He ques- tioned Trump’s tactics, but said many presidents have taken issue with Canada’s pol- icies on defense, border en- forcement, the trading of soft- wood lumber and market access for U.S. dairy farmers. Brian Guerrette, a potato farmer in Caribou, Maine, said he hasn’t heard much about fentanyl coming down from Canada. Moose are a bigger is- sue, Guerrette said—and too many cheap Canadian potatoes. Trump’s talk of the 51st state, meanwhile, has unsettled some of Guerrette’s Canadian friends just over the border. “Some people think it’s just the beginning of a takeover,” he said. “They think it’s the begin- ning of making life miserable for them until they roll over.” have struggled to maintain au- diences. Viewers historically started watching shows with older family members. Ducks- worth herself began watching “General Hospital” with her older brother after their family moved to New Jersey and the two started a new school. Marni Levine, 59, remem- bers sitting as a young child with her grandmother as she folded laundry and watched “Guiding Light” and “As The World Turns,” both on CBS. Levine became a soap opera Vi ee fan in her own right when she was 10, taping her favorite shows on a VCR to watch with friends after school. When ABC’s “All My Chil- dren” went off the air in 2012, “it was like my best friend died,” said the Marlboro, N.J., resident. She now watches “General Hospital.” “Tt’s like checking in with family at the end of the day without it being my drama,” said Levine, an independent college counselor for high- school students. “I’m a specta- = . c By Sas , we ' X 3 Mi > ine Soap fanatics have witnessed kidnappings, possessions like Deidre Hall’s ’Days of Lives’ plotline—and the genre’s decline. GARY NULL/NBC/EVERE TT COLLECTION tor in the drama. I can root them on and don’t have to feel like a bad person for hating the villain.” For her, the best part of soap operas is their cadence. “You don’t have to wait two years to find out what hap- pened,” she said. “I’ve been waiting years for ‘The Hand- maid’s Tale’ to come back. This is consistent.” Nostalgia is one reason Ni- cole Fischman is still drawn to “General Hospital.” The 43-year-old started watching the show 30 years ago when she lived with her grandparents. Her grand- mother was a seamstress who worked from home and her grandfather was an early-shift postal worker. At 3 p.m., Fis- chman did her homework at the dining table, and they all gathered to tune into the latest antics in Port Charles. When someone finds out she still watches, the first thing she usually hears is, “Oh, my God, ‘General Hospital’ is still on?” said Fischman. “My response is always the same: “Yep, and I will watch it until the very end,’ praying that it never comes to that.” THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. KKK *K Saturday/Sunday, February 22 - 23, 2025 | All OPINION THE WEEKEND INTERVIEW with Douglas Murray | By Tunku Varadarajan New York hen Vice President JD Vance lectured sullen European leaders in Munich last week about the “threat from within” and “the re- treat of Europe from some of its most fundamental values,” he could have been channeling the British essayist Douglas Murray— and he almost certainly was. In an interview with the podcaster Joe Rogan before his election, Mr. Vance revealed that he’d read “bits and pieces” of “The Strange Death of Europe” (2017), Mr. Murray’s best-known book, which argues that “Europe is committing sui- cide” by a combination of un- checked immigration and a reck- less abandonment of its Judeo- Christian principles. In his trademark style, Mr. Rogan de- scribed Mr. Murray as “the Paul Revere of this s—.” “I wasn’t surprised that Vance’s speech received such a cold response in the hall in Mu- nich,” Mr. Murray says. “He deliv- ered truths to the European elites that they have spent years run- ning from. Even the reaction to his speech proves the problem.” European leaders are “forever trying to shoot messengers who tell them about their problems— even when the message comes from friends—rather than actu- ally facing those problems.” The author of ‘The War on the West’ talks about JD Vance, AfD, Israel and Hamas, and why America is better than anyone else at resisting ‘declinism. Mr. Murray, 45, has published 11 books. The first, a biography of Lord Alfred Douglas, Oscar Wilde’s lover, was published when the au- thor was 20, “a disgusting age, quite unforgiveable.” The most re- cent is “The War on the West” (2022), an account of the attack on “all the roots of the Western tradi- tion and against everything good that the Western tradition has pro- duced.” He laments that “the side of democracy, reason, rights and universal principles” has prema- turely surrendered to its cultural enemies on the postcolonial and race-obsessed left. In his writings on Western “de- clinism”—a word he uses often— Mr. Murray resonates with Oswald Spengler (1880-1936), a German philosopher and prophet of de- cline; Samuel Huntington (1927-2008), the American political scientist who wrote “The Clash of Civilizations”; and Oriana Fallaci (1929-2006), the Italian journalist who spent her last years warning us that Europe was becoming “Eurabia.” The British magazine Prospect has described Mr. Murray Meet Europe’s Paul Revere as “a darling of the global illiberal right,” and a review of “The Strange Death of Europe” in the left-wing Guardian referred to his “gentrified xenophobia.” Mr. Murray, whose icons are Ed- mund Burke and the conservative philosopher Roger Scruton (1944-2020), scoffs at these put- downs.” “Far right,” he says, is “one of those labels around whose use we could do with having some hygiene. I’ve only ever been called ‘far-right’ by Islamists and far-left- ists who want to try to stigmatize me like I’m a totally unreasonable head-banger. It is a smear, de- signed to shut down debate.” The term isn’t without its value, he adds, when correctly applied. Mr. Murray is “very worried” about the far right in Europe. “I think it exists.” The right “goes wrong when it starts to play—and I say ‘play’ with deep quotation marks—with ethnonationalism. I think most people realize that’s where it starts to go off the rails.” I ask him about Alternative for Germany, or AfD, which is running second in the polls ahead of Ger- many’s Sunday election. Elon Musk has thrown his support behind it, and Mr. Vance met its leader after his Munich speech. “There are very big problems here,” Mr. Murray says of the AfD. “It’s a curate’s egg—maybe good in parts, but certainly bad in some parts. I mean, there are some peo- ple at the top of the party who would be normal Conservatives in Britain, maybe even centrist Dem- ocrats in America.” But there also “people in the party who are ex- tremely worrying. Proper neo-Na- zis. And then you think: Wow, this is the party that is trying to cor- rect the CDU”—the center-right Christian Democratic Union. Educated at Eton and Oxford, Mr. Murray is the sort of silver- tongued Englishman who bowls Americans over with his lightly worn smarts. He divides his life between London and New York, where he is a fellow at the Man- hattan Institute, and he spends a great deal of time in Israel, of which he is a forthright, some- times blistering, advocate. His next book, due in April, is “On Democ- racy and Death Cults: Israel and the Future of Civilization.” It as- serts that “evil does exist as a force in the world. Indeed, it is the only explanation for why certain people do certain things.” After the attacks of Oct. 7, 2023, Mr. Murray says startlingly, “I had an upsurge of optimism. And that might seem strange because my first response, like everyone else’s, was just simply horror.” As Israel responded to the violation of its land and people by Hamas, he was “enormously enthused.” He has a lot of young Israeli friends and contemporaries, and he was ener- gized that they were “answering a question, one that in my mind haunts everyone in America and Britain to some extent.” The ques- tion has to do with World War II: > a Ss a a x < a oO a < oa “What would we do if we found ourselves in the position that our grandfathers or fathers found themselves?” Every family made sacrifices on a scale “unimaginable to us now. Would people say, ‘We couldn’t do that now’?” Israel has answered in the affir- mative: “A lot of people thought the young generation didn’t have it in them. They’d thought they’d gone soft. Decadent. They wanted to party in Tel Aviv and be on Tik- Tok. And they stepped up. And wow, did they step up.” Mr. Murray is filled with admi- ration for Israel at war. “See, I don’t like a society that has ori- ented itself toward victimhood,” he says, in an obvious dig at the U.S. “I always thought it was a negative turn in society. And the Israelis didn’t do that. They oriented themselves with heroism again, defending their people, defending their country, defending their way of life.” The Israelis didn’t enter the bat- tlefield with “joy or even revenge. They could’ve been excused if they had, but they didn’t.” They went to war “with a knowledge of what they were defending. And it told me, really, that if the time of trial comes for a society and you have the right values in place, you can stand up and do yourself proud.” ould young Americans be up to the task? Maybe—if “you have the right values in place, and if you don’t teach them to hate the country they’re from.” He calls America the one country in the West that isn’t in decline, “which doesn’t mean there isn’t the danger.” Britain has been a source of despair to Mr. Murray since he was a teen- ager, when he saw the way the Church of England “turned from a place which had a creed and a be- lief into a sort of Greenpeace of prayer.” In fact, a sense of fore- boding had kicked in even earlier, when he was 10. “I was in my school playground in London when the news broke that Marga- ret Thatcher had resigned.” He re- members saying to a school friend as they kicked a soccer ball, “ ‘But who else can do the job?’ And the subsequent years have shown that the answer is: nobody.” America’s “great resilience,” he believes, keeps decline at bay. “The country can be stress-tested very, very badly and it still keeps go- ing.” He admires the American character, offering an unexpected example of its strength. “There’s a specific thing which Americans may not notice about themselves but which I can assure you an out- sider notices. Which is that—un- less you have a horrible social cir- cle—if you do well, your friends are pleased for you.” This isn’t true in Britain, or Europe gener- ally. “Strong negative instincts kick in. ‘Don’t get above yourself.’ ‘Who do you think you are?’ ” America resists decline, also, because it has “very good founda- tions.” Mr. Murray says he is “for- ever railing against Americans who do down the founders of this coun- try. Because I don’t think the ones who do that realize how lucky Americans are to have had the founders you had.” Mr. Murray stumbled recently on some notes he’d made after lunch with Henry Kissinger. He can’t remember when it was, but Kissinger had just read “The Strange Death of Eu- rope” and had remarked to Mr. Murray: “It’s not clear to me that the country that dislikes its past has any future.” This is why fraud- ulent history like the New York Times’s “1619 Project” and political crusades like DEI are dangerous. “They’re intended to demoralize us, to trick Americans into believ- ing that their country is a force for evil.” Mr. Murray is encouraged by Donald Trump, who has “clearly tapped into the countermovement that exists in his country of people being aware that they’ve been pushed too far.” A lot of Americans are “quite rightly horrified by the rewriting of the American story, and they would like, as people do, to be proud of their country and to have a reasonable estimation of it. So there’s definitely been a move- ment back the other way.” Mr. Trump knows instinctively “that people like winners. That’s why one of his biggest insults is to call someone a loser.” On the other hand, he finds the support for Hamas on American campuses dispiriting. “Antisemi- tism is the first sign,” he says, “that a society has gone rotten. It’s a sign that a society is becom- ing conspiratorial, stupid and po- tentially evil.” Antisemitism is also “a war on success”—not only Israel’s, but also “the success of Jews historically.” Mr. Murray regards antisemi- tism as “a perennial of evil,” and given that ineradicable curse, “the only answer is for Jews to be prominent and strong.” Israel shows that they are “perfectly ca- pable of countering the taunt that the jihadists always used, which is, ‘We love death more than you love life.” ” Mr. Murray used to torment himself with the question “How can any free liberal society face down a necrophilic death cult? It seems like an insuperable chal- lenge.” He describes how Ismail Haniyeh, the leader of Hamas, was “pleased” when he learned that three of his sons were killed in an Israeli airstrike. No Israeli father would react like that. r. Murray “came to an an- swer” during a lull in his reporting on the Gaza war. “It was that there’s nothing wrong with loving life this much. And in fact, it’s our great strength. And we shouldn’t see it as the taunt that Hamas and al Qaeda and oth- ers think it to be.” It is our “great, great advantage to want to mini- mize casualties, to want to get hostages back, to do terrible deals, even, to get our people back.” “If it is the case that a Jewish baby will be returned in exchange for 12 adult murderers serving a life sentence, that is a very, very...” Mr. Murray’s voice trails off. He’s referring to Kfir Bibas, who was 9 months old when he was abducted from his home in Kibbutz Nir Oz on Oct. 7. “In one way that’s madness, that’s insanity. And on the other hand, I, and you, and everyone like us—wouldn’t we rather live ina society that wanted to get a baby back?” A week after we speak comes the news that Kfir and his brother, Ariel, who was 4 on Oct. 7, were both murdered in Hamas captivity. Mr. Murray gives me his reaction. “It is terrible, terrible news,” he says. “But Hamas always shows us another level in their inferno. This time by demanding the return of their grown-up terrorists in ex- change for the body of a Jewish baby. Always a new low. Always.” Mr. Varadarajan, a Journal con- tributor, is a fellow at the Ameri- can Enterprise Institute and at New York University Law School’s Classical Liberal Institute. Connecticut Asks Congress to “Rethink the Jones Act’ Hartford, Conn. State Address on Jan. 8, Connecticut Gov. Ned Lamont outlined policy pri- orities for the 2025 CROSS levislati . COUNTRY egislative session.
