METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: By YAROSLAV TROFIMOV President Trump’s abrupt and enthusiastic embrace of Russia and its authorit...
ID: 41

CONTENT:
By YAROSLAV TROFIMOV President Trump’s abrupt and enthusiastic embrace of Russia and its authoritarian leader, Vladimir Putin, is driven in part by a strategic desire to drive a wedge be- tween Moscow and Beijing, two powers that have long sought to end U.S. dominance of the international order. Foreign-policy experts have dubbed the maneuver a “re- verse Nixon.” As president, Richard Nixon cozied up to Communist China in an effort to deepen a divide between Mao Zedong and the Soviet Union. That reset Cold War geopolitics and set the stage for China’s development. Sub- sequent cooperation between Washington and_ Beijing helped erode the Soviet Union’s global influence. Prying Russia and China apart now will be difficult. The two declared in 2022 that they have a “no-limits” friend- ship, and have deepened mili- tary and intelligence coopera- tion and aligned their foreign policies. China also provides Russia with essential eco- nomic support, including com- puter chips and machine tools used in military industries. By pivoting to support Rus- sia and backing away from Ukraine, Washington is al- ready alienating its allies in Europe, collectively the U.S.’s largest trading partner and top foreign investor. The pivot could also spook part- ners in Asia that the U.S. would want on its side in any conflict with China. On Wednesday, Trump echoed Russian propaganda and directed a stream of in- vective at Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, calling him a dictator and blaming n n pf] a a a = =< So fo} aA an < ES a = fr] [4 x =S = 2 = =) a ea] xg z= xz a > a am ir => = a Chinese leader Xi Jinping and Russian President Vladimir Putin sharing a toast in 2023. Kyiv for starting the war that began when Putin ordered a full-scale invasion in 2022. That outburst, following a barbed speech to European leaders by Vice President JD Vance in Munich and other signs of waning U.S. support for Ukraine, have already caused a rift between the U.S. and its trans-Atlantic allies. When Nixon and his na- tional security adviser Henry Kissinger reversed course on China policy in the early 1970s, transferring recogni- tion from the exiled govern- ment in Taiwan to Mao’s com- munist regime, they exploited an existing clash between Moscow and Beijing, which ac- cused each other of deviating from true Communist teach- ings. The two had even fought a brief border war in 1969. Trump, by contrast, is “at- tempting to split an entente between two powers that have ideological affinity and shared strategic interests,” said Evan Feigenbaum, a former senior State Department official now at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, a think tank in Washington. “And what it has done instead is to split the West, while Russia aligns with the U.S. and with China simultaneously.” In U.S.-Russia talks in Saudi Arabia this past week, the highest-level encounter since 2022, negotiators discussed the possible economic bene- fits of improved relations and lifting U.S. sanctions. Those have stunted the Russian economy—and forced it to rely even more on Beijing. A briefing memo prepared for the Kremlin by a govern- ment-affiliated think tank and obtained by a Western govern- ment suggested Moscow pro- pose ending cooperation with China on sensitive technologi- cal and military issues as part of a deal to end the war on terms favorable to Russia. Moscow could also offer to limit Chinese participation in infrastructure projects that would strengthen China’s stra- tegic capabilities, the memo said. It also suggested a pledge by Russia to limit natural-gas exports to Europe to under- mine European competitive- ness and allow sales of Ameri- can liquefied natural gas, as well as offers to grant U.S. companies rights to mineral deposits in occupied Ukraine. Such terms are designed to appeal to Trump’s transactional approach. But critics of the outreach to Russia argue that there is little Russia can do to help the U.S. contain China. “The Chinese are far more advanced technologically in all kinds of sectors than the Rus- sians are,” said Alina Polyak- ova, CEO of the Center for Eu- ropean Policy Analysis think tank in Washington. If Wash- ington abandoned Ukraine, she warned, it would legiti- mize Russia’s aggression and send a signal to Beijing about its own potential military ag- gression against Taiwan. At the Halifax Security Fo- rum in November, U.S. Navy Adm. Samuel Paparo, who leads the Indo-Pacific com- mand, said Moscow and Beijing have a “transactional symbio- sis,” and that “to think that we will be able to drive a wedge between them is a fantasy.” There is another, more fun- damental, dynamic at play that limits Putin’s room for maneu- ver: While Russia’s relationship with China is strategic and permanent, any rapproche- ment with Washington is in- herently temporary, at least as long as the U.S. remains a de- mocracy. Putin has to factor in the likelihood that the next U.S. administration may swing in the opposite direction. Even next year’s midterms could al- ter American policy. “Russia knows that China is its giant neighbor, that the Communist Party of China will keep ruling it for as long as Russia can foresee—and that alienating China creates a mortal danger for Russia,” said Alexander Gabuev, an expert on Sino-Russian relations who heads the Carnegie Rus- sia Eurasia Center in Berlin. That doesn’t mean Putin won’t engage. Trump’s over- tures offer the prospect of getting from Washington something his armies couldn’t achieve in three years of war: regime change in Kyiv and the return of Ukraine, and possi- bly other parts of Europe, to Moscow’s sphere of influence. “T don’t see why Russia wouldn’t pocket all that Don- ald Trump brings it on a plat- ter while at the same time maintaining the tight bond with China,” said Thomas Go- mart, director of the French Institute of International Rela- tions, a Paris think tank that advises the government. While China is watching Trump’s pivot to Russia with some apprehension, it is also cashing in a strategic windfall: Its two main goals in Europe, propping up the Putin regime and splitting the rest of Eu- rope from the U.S.—mutually exclusive until now—are sud- denly within reach. As Washington poured scorn on Zelensky and Euro- pean leaders, China’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi spoke of the need to maintain international law and the charter of the United Nations. Recently, he described Ukraine as “a friend and a partner” as he met his Ukrainian counterpart. Ukraine, U.S. Near Minerals Agreement The U.S. and Ukraine are nearing a deal that would hand valuable mineral rights to the U.S., an agreement that the Trump administration has sought as compensation for military aid to fight off Rus- sia’s invasion, people familiar with the matter said. By Alan Cullison, Alexander Ward and James Marson Ukraine had refused to sign such a deal earlier this past week, sparking a war of words between President Trump and Ukrainian President Volod- ymyr Zelensky and fears of a break in relations. In an apparent nod to an impending deal, Zelensky said in a nightly video address Fri- day that teams of U.S. and Ukrainian negotiators were working on a draft agreement. Zelensky was presented with a deal by U.S. Treasury Secre- tary Scott Bessent in Kyiv this month, but said the Ukrainian side needed to study it further and that it should contain se- curity guarantees for Ukraine. An agreement could be signed as soon as Saturday, though it isn’t yet complete, people briefed on the talks said. The terms couldn’t be learned. Asked about the prospect of a deal, Trump told reporters Friday, “I think they want it. They feel good about it.” Zelensky’s administration had itself floated the idea of preferential access to minerals last year, hoping to entice Trump to continue military support. Ukraine says it has Europe’s largest reserves of ti- tanium, used to make alloys for aircraft and naval vessels, and lithium, key to batteries. It also has rare earths, essential in certain high-tech industries. BIJU BORO/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE/GETTY IMAGES
