METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: PERSONAL SPACE KATIE ROIPHE AT A CURRICULUM NIGHT, my son’s English teacher told Tutors do the ga...
ID: 74

CONTENT:
PERSONAL SPACE KATIE ROIPHE AT A CURRICULUM NIGHT, my son’s English teacher told Tutors do the gathered parents that tu- homework tors should not be writing pa- . ’ pers for students. Maybe I am write naive, but I was a little papers, shocked. This was a Brooklyn school, not a place with bil- oversee lionaires taking private jets to every Class. St. Barts for the weekend. I Will they Knew ChatcrT was ” iss . which also came up, but this hel p with d seemed somehow more cor- kid’s first rupt and orchestrated. In the job too? midst of the collegial evening, the teacher’s comment sud- denly illuminated, for a mo- ment, the ugly fact that rich people weren’t just buying op- portunities for their children but were brazenly cheating. The practice is hardly un- common. David Blobaum from the National Test Prep Associ- ation told me that he was ap- proached by a parent to write a kid’s college essay and he refused. “Honestly, these par- ents should think of them- selves as hiring a criminal, not a tutor,” he said. I heard about another tutor who did write a college essay for a kid, after a certain amount of moral struggle, figuring that if she didn’t do it someone else would. By now the caricature of rich parents trying to buy a way into the Ivy League for their children is familiar, but some of what I heard was still startling. A tu- tor at an otherwise legitimate tutoring business told me that the company sends her “a ninth-grade math homework, and I finish it and send it back without ever even meeting the kid.” Or they send a U.S. his- tory paper to be written in the next three hours. Do these parents think that they are helping their children by farming out their home- work? Do they care if their kid develops intellectually and emotionally? This may be how they move through the world, purchasing a kind of friction- less appearance of a good life. It seems to me that the children who are writing their own papers or studying for their own tests have an advan- tage here. They are learning to work, to write, to risk, to struggle, to fail, while these over-tutored children are learning to pay someone else to do work for them. How do you gain confidence if your tu- tor turned in an “A” paper on “The Great Gatsby?” If these children actually read “Gatsby” they might learn something about the futility of materialism. Aside from overt cheating, there is something generally toxic in the tutoring culture of many elite private schools. There is a vogue for tutors who are paid to boost the grades of otherwise decent students in a frantic push be- fore college applications. Amanda Uhry, the owner of Manhattan Private School Ad- visors, told me that this often backfires. “It is a real case of diminishing returns after a point. You trade a B+ for an A, but you wind up with a stressed-out, freaked-out kid and that goes on for a life- time,” she said. “Some chil- dren need tutors, but more than half the tutored children we see absolutely do not.” In this relentless push for achievement, the over-tutored kid is by definition never good enough. Parents are sending them the crippling message that they are not capable of doing what they need to do on their own. They can only be accomplished or impressive enough with a paid profes- sional to get them there. One tutor I spoke to has seen ex- hausted, over-pressured chil- dren who have a tutor for ev- ery single class. How are they going to make it through life if they need constant hand holding just to function as a high-school student? It is no small irony that this kind of over-tutoring is creating un- derprepared children. Somewhere in this repel- lent situation there are proba- bly good intentions. There is the very understandable de- sire to help and nurture and protect your kid. There is the physical reassurance of a helpful human at the kitchen table talking things through. But a history class teaches more than history; students learn to work and struggle tion and adaptation and grit. These parents are so pan- icked about their kids going to Ivy League schools and af- ter that onto banks and hedge funds and prestigious compa- nies that they are neglecting to create kids who can actu- ally function in these places. I hadn’t known until re- cently that some of these chil- dren keep their tutors through college. I have even heard of people who keep tu- tors for help with the job search. Where does this end? Will the tutor tinker with memos for their jobs? Will the tutors stay up late manag- ing their spreadsheets? Write their wedding vows? These rich scions will go through the motions of competent adulthood without ever hav- ing picked up the skills. One tutor recalled meeting some of these over-tutored children at college. “I know a bunch of these children to have intense drug problems and anxiety, to be some of the most miserable people I know, but ostensibly they will al- ways have this story of being successful and rich,” she said. “Meanwhile, this kid is a train wreck.”
