METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: By ANAT PELED Awnp Rory JONES At Tel Aviv’s makeshift Hostage Square, a clock counts the days, ho...
ID: 38

CONTENT:
By ANAT PELED Awnp Rory JONES At Tel Aviv’s makeshift Hostage Square, a clock counts the days, hours, minutes and seconds that Hamas has held captives since its attacks in October 2023 that sparked the war in Gaza. The ticker now reads more than 500 days but doesn’t reflect the time that Hamas’s longest-held Israeli hostage has spent in captivity. Avera Mengistu, a 38-year- old Israeli of Ethiopian descent, has spent more than 3,800 days in captivity since crossing into Gaza over a decade ago. If all goes to plan, he will be among the six latest hostages Hamas is set to release under a truce on Saturday. For Meng- istu’s family and the Ethiopian community in Israel, it will mark a moment of relief. But is also a bitter reminder of how their efforts to free him didn’t capture the public’s attention or force the government to strike a deal for his freedom. It took the capture of about 250 people in the Oct. 7 at- tacks—and the subsequent war in Gaza—to create the conditions for the return of Mengistu and another hos- tage, Hisham al-Sayed, 37, an Israeli Bedouin who also has been held for nearly a decade. Rivka Sally Bayna is an Ethiopian-born Israeli who has pressed for the release of 38-year-old Avera Mengistu. A 2016 video shows his family protesting for his return. Both men suffer from men- tal illness, according to their families, and crossed into Gaza of their own accord but weren’t stopped by the mili- tary. They both come from disadvantaged communities, and critics of the Israeli gov- ernment say that is why it didn’t reach a deal earlier. The plight of Mengistu, in particular, has become a sym- bol for Israelis of Ethiopian descent of their marginalized position in Israeli society. Many members of the commu- nity were airlifted from Ethio- pia decades ago, in daring op- erations to shield them from civil conflict in East Africa. A spokesman for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Ne- tanyahu declined to comment on why talks to free Mengistu and Sayed previously failed. The pair are part of the fi- nal group of six living captives to be freed in the first phase of the cease-fire deal between Israel and Hamas in Gaza.
