METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: By YusuFr KHAN Oil-and-gas companies and renewable-energy groups are teaming up to save a Biden-e...
ID: 63

CONTENT:
By YusuFr KHAN Oil-and-gas companies and renewable-energy groups are teaming up to save a Biden-era tax incentive to produce green hydrogen, amid worries the Trump administration will re- move the concession as part of a push to ax green subsidies. In a letter with more than 100 signatories, industry groups representing oil-and- gas companies, renewable- power companies and chemi- cals firms pushed the House, Senate and Trump administra- tion to keep the 45V tax credit, which is dedicated to creating hydrogen as a fuel source in the U.S. “The hydrogen market is growing at a rapid pace inter- nationally and the U.S. has a unique opportunity to solidify and advance its leadership in this global commodity,” the Feb. 18 letter said. “To ensure our country retains its leading position, we need continued policy support, particularly as other countries are investing billions in hydrogen.” The letter was addressed to House Speaker Mike Johnson, Senate Majority Leader John Thune, Senate Finance Com- mittee Chairman Mike Crapo and House Ways and Means Chairman Jason Smith. Signa- tories included aircraft manu- facturer Airbus, chemicals gi- ant Dow and _ automaker General Motors, while indus- try groups including the Amer- ican Petroleum Institute, which represents companies includ- ing Exxon Mobil and Chevron, Air Liquide said its net profit rose but missed ana- lysts’ expectations on a de- cline in sales. The French industrial- gases company said Friday that its net profit for 2024 was 3.31 billion euros, equiv- alent to $3.48 billion, com- pared with €3.08 billion a year earlier. Group revenue also signed the letter. The tax credit, finalized by the Biden administration just before President Trump took office, allows for up to $3 per kilogram of hydrogen pro- fell 2% to €27.06 billion, dragged by declining energy prices and a negative cur- rency impact. Net profit was below ex- pectations of €3.34 billion, while revenue slightly ex- ceeded views of €27.0 billion, according to analysts’ esti- mates provided by the com- pany. The company’s operat- duced. With hydrogen a na- scent industry in the U.S., the credit has been seen as an en- abling force for production, both in pushing energy pro- ducers to start making the Air Liquide Net Profit Misses Views ing margin stood at 19.9% in 2024. For 2025, the company remains confident in its ability to further increase its operat- ing margin and to deliver re- curring net profit growth. It expects its operating margin to grow by 2 percentage points in the next two years, excluding the energy impact. —Helena Smolak fuel and for heavy industries like the steel sector to use it. Since Trump started his second term, worries have mounted that the Inflation Re- duction Act would be disman- tled by his administration. Support for the hydrogen credits has come from both sides of the political aisle, with California Gov. Gavin Newsom, a Democrat, and Texas Gov. Greg Abbott, a Re- publican, prominent support- ers. Many of the act’s subsi- dies have flowed to Republican states. “It is a linchpin for en- abling the entire spectrum of hydrogen in the United States,” said Frank Wolak, CEO of the Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Association, an indus- try group. Wolak said hydrogen chimes with the Trump admin- istration’s aim of energy domi- nance, and keeping the credit would allow the U.S. to become the key producer of hydrogen and ammonia globally. French Content Producer Banijay Targets U.S. Market for Expansion
