METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: PACIFIC OCEAN —J) Spiller attempts to evacuate from|fiome! but traffic forces her to turn around....
ID: 28

CONTENT:
PACIFIC OCEAN —J) Spiller attempts to evacuate from|fiome! but traffic forces her to turn around. 2:39p.m. \ Spiller and her husband try to leave again, but o police turn them around because of congestion a! = below.They consider ; sheltering in place. NU SUMMIT —_ Se They are able to flee south to the Pacific Coast Highway. CAMILLE BRESSANGE/WSJ ployed some teams, it didn’t station units in the Palisades, where another fire had broken out days earlier after New Year’s Eve fireworks, an inter- nal incident report said. Fire officials also declined to issue a “limited recall,” which would have kept roughly 1,000 firefighters on duty for an extra shift and could have enabled the department to staff all of its roughly 42 series-200 engines, which are key assets in fighting fires, according to the plans. The Los Angeles Fire Com- mission is launching an inde- pendent audit of the response to the Palisades fire. Mayor Karen Bass is working with the California governor’s office to review the state and local re- sponse to the fire. On Friday, Bass dismissed Fire Chief Kris- tin Crowley, saying she had erred in several ways including not keeping enough firefighters on duty the day of the fires. Crowley wasn’t available for comment. The Los Angeles Fire Department declined to comment. Previously, Crowley has said the department fol- lowed the system it has in place to predeploy resources and increase staffing without knowing where, exactly, a fire could spark. “We surged where we could surge,” Crowley said. Spiller and her husband’s frustrated attempts to evacuate spotlight the gaps in public- safety preparedness. First attempt Spiller, 71, received a call from a friend about the Pali- sades fire minutes after it be- gan around 10:30 am. In nearly two decades of living in the Palisades, she had never had to evacuate—such fires were typically doused fast. At 11:13 a.m., the L.A. City Emergency Alerts system noti- fied some Palisades residents to prepare to evacuate. Before long, Palisades Drive—the main artery—was clogged. t PACIFIC Ss PALISADES 10:30a.m. 4sFire breaks out in p (the hills above. as of Jan. 7 q A 2:00em local i) RUSTIC ly CANYON @
