METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: By MICHELLE HACKMAN AnD JOSH DAWSEY WASHINGTON—The acting director of U.S. Immigration and Custom...
ID: 34

CONTENT:
By MICHELLE HACKMAN AnD JOSH DAWSEY WASHINGTON—The acting director of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Ca- leb Vitello, was removed from his post, administration offi- cials and other people familiar with the matter said, amid frustration in the Trump ad- ministration that deportations haven’t accelerated faster. The administration is shak- ing up the leadership at ICE and is soon expected to an- nounce a new acting director, one of the administration offi- cials said. Another adminis- tration official said the team at ICE would be expanded. A spokeswoman for DHS said in a statement that Vitello is “actually being elevated so he is no longer in an adminis- trative role, but is overseeing all field and enforcement oper- ations: finding, arresting, and deporting illegal aliens.” Vitello will remain at ICE and will head the office respon- sible for arrests and deporta- tions. Efforts to reach him weren’t successful. Officials are expected to hire Madison Sheahan, the Louisi- ana Secretary for Wildlife and Fisheries, in a senior role at ICE, people familiar with the matter said. It is unclear who the next director of the agency would be. A spokeswoman for Sheahan declined to comment. Vitello’s removal follows the ouster of two other top deportation officials at ICE earlier this month. Top administration officials have been putting pressure on ICE to increase its daily arrests, even at one point telling indi- vidual field offices they were expected to hit daily targets of 75 arrests a day. They have been casting around for solu- tions as daily arrests haven’t been hitting those targets. JOSEPH PREZIOSO/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE/GETTY IMAGES U.S. WATCH DIFFERENT STROKES: Swimmers donning hats compete in a 25-meter race in near-freezing water temperatures at the Memphremagog Winter Swimming Festival in Newport, Vt. CONGRESS Senate Approves GOP Budget Plan Senate Republicans took their first step Friday toward securing new funding for bor- der security and the military, after Democrats forced GOP lawmakers to take uncom- fortable amendment votes all night on hotly contested is- sues on Capitol Hill. The Senate approved Re- publicans’ budget blueprint aimed at unlocking $342 bil- lion in spending—and the same amount of offsetting cuts—over four years. The blueprint, which Re- publican senators have cast as a backup to a far broader House GOP plan, cleared the Senate by 52-48 on Friday morning. One Republican— Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky— voted no. A series of Democratic- housing and energy costs, as well as blocking tax breaks for the wealthy, were de- feated. A vote on reinstating fired Park Service, Forest Ser- vice and Bureau of Land Management employees also failed. Republicans also defeated a Democratic amendment to ramp up defense-sector sup- port for Ukraine. : WASHINGTON, D.C. : DOGE Ajide’s Access : To IRS Data Curbed An aide to Elon Musk’s ef- : forts to shrink the federal : government will have access : to the Internal Revenue Ser- : vice’s computer systems but : not the personal information : of taxpayers, according to a : federal memo. Gavin Kliger has been help- : ing the new Department of : Government Efficiency cut : spending as an employee of : the Office of Personnel Man- : agement and was recently : granted access to IRS sys- : tems. The agreement between : OPM and the IRS says Kliger : will help improve the tax : agency's technology infrastruc- : ture within boundaries pro- : tecting personal information : from tax returns, according to : a copy of the agreement seen : by The Wall Street Journal. proposed measures related to : : tems that contain returns or : return information become : necessary as part of the de- : tailed’s duties under this : agreement, that access shall : only be provided if it is anon- : ymized and in a manner that : cannot be associated with, di- : rectly or indirectly, any tax- : payer,” the agreement reads. “Should access to IRS sys- The agreement was ear- lier reported by the New —Siobhan Hughes : and Xavier Martinez : York Times. : NEW YORK : Man Is Convicted : In Rushdie Attack A New Jersey man was : convicted Friday of at- : tempted murder for stabbing : author Salman Rushdie mul- : tiple times on a New York : lecture stage in 2022. Jurors delivered the ver- : dict after deliberating for less : than two hours, also finding : Hadi Matar, 27, guilty of as- : sault for wounding a man : who was on the Chautauqua : Institution stage with Rush- : die at the time. Matar ran up to Rushdie as : he was about to speak on Aug. : 12, 2022, and stabbed him : more than a dozen times be- : fore a live audience. The attack : left the 77-year-old prizewin- : ning novelist blind in one eye. Rushdie was the key wit- : ness during seven days of : testimony, describing in : graphic detail his life-threat- : ening injuries and long and : painful recovery. Matar, who stood for the : verdict, looked down at the : defense table but had no ob- : vious reaction when the jury : delivered the verdict. As he : was led out of the courtroom : in handcuffs, he quietly ut- : tered, “Free Palestine,” echo- : ing comments he has fre- : quently made while entering : and leaving the trial. —Brian Schwartz : —Associated Press
