METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: SCIENCE SHORTS Did Lead Lower The IQs of ative interests out- side of their research. The _ prize...
ID: 78

CONTENT:
SCIENCE SHORTS Did Lead Lower The IQs of ative interests out- side of their research. The _ prize-winners were 22 times more likely to perform, sing or act as a hobby; 12 times more likely to pursue creative writ- ing; and about seven times more likely to participate in a craft like sculpting, paint- ing or glassblowing. As for athletes, those who specialize early in one sport tend to be worse off over the long haul than their compatri- ots who dabbled in other activities and specialized later. A 2021 meta-analysis evaluating 6,000 athletes found that those who made it to world-class competition tended to have more multisport practice, started their primary sport later, ac- cumulated less practice time and pro- gressed a bit more slowly. To be sure: The more we care, and the more our job or pursuit feels like a part of who we are, the harder we’ll work. That’s helpful to a certain point. Research looking at everything from getting people to vote to taking care of the environment to eating healthier tells us that when we iden- tify closely with something, we’re The author, right, at 18 years old, reacts to just missing his goal of breaking a 4-minute mile in a competition in 2003 more likely to make sure our actions and identity align. But such narrowing comes with a downside. As we shed other parts of ourselves, and that one activity be- comes an ever bigger presence, fear starts to take over. We don’t just want to succeed. We have to. We’re not just playing a game—it’s our self on the line. Fear of failure rises and moves from “I failed” to “I am a failure.” Studies by Patrick Gaudeau and colleagues at the University of Ottawa found that striving with a hyper-re- sults-oriented approach leads to less experimentation and a propensity to stick to the status quo and avoid challenges. In sports, such striving is at the heart of choking and underperfor- mance. Athletes with a singular iden- tity based on their sport more often experience what’s called threat-stress response. When fear of failure domi- nates, athletes produce more of the stress hormone cortisol and less tes- tosterone, a mixture that nudges us toward avoidance and protection. When we feel challenged but not threatened, it’s the opposite effect: more testosterone, less cortisol. When outcomes are all that mat- ter, and winning or losing becomes self-defining, our default response isn’t to become a warrior. It’s to re- treat. The secret is to go in a different direction. When the world screams to go narrow, elite performers learn to go broad. It’s a lesson that profes- sional mountain-biker Kate Courtney had to learn. When the world screams to go narrow, elite performers learn to go broad. As she told me, “My superpower is being able to grind.” And it worked for a while. But after initial success, in the prime of her athletic career at the age of 25, she felt worn out, and her performance was going backward. Courtney didn’t do what most ath- letes do in those moments: double down and work harder. She eased up. “When you have a more well- rounded life, it doesn’t take away, it doesn’t distract you as an athlete,” she said. “It makes you stronger and better. And able to have a clear head when you get the opportunity to line up...I bring who I am to the bike. But the bike does not make me who I am.” Now 29, Courtney is currently ranked ninth in the world. It’s not that knit- ting is special, any more than the vari- ous hobbies that the Nobel-winning scien- tists took up. But any activities or perspec- tives that give com- plexity to our self- image help send a message to our brain that the thing in front of us is impor- tant, but it’s not all that matters. Other performers I surveyed spoke of simply putting the ex- perience above the outcome. As one world-class runner put it, “I had to know when to throw the watch away.’ An entrepreneur relayed to me, “Some- where along the way, we numb our- selves to the experience in the name of chasing metrics.” It‘s better, he said, to remember what the motivation was for the en- terprise in the first place: “It’s the feeling, the excitement, curiosity, just this energy that makes us feel alive.” Steve Magness, an athletic coach and performance consultant, is the author of “Win the Inside Game,” from which this essay is adapted, and “Do Hard Things.” Roman coins made of silver, unearthed in modern-day Germany. Ancient Romans? Airborne By AyLIn WoopwarD particles LEAD POLLUTION in ancient from Rome was so high that it mi nting dropped the population’s IQ by . around three points or more. COINS Elites were exposed to lead caused the _ through water pipes, cooking pots, cosmetics and the syrups most health that sweetened their wine. But dam age. the most widespread exposure for Romans came from industrial pollution caused by the mining and smelting of metals used to make money. Romans melted down galena, a lead-rich ore, to extract the sil- ver needed for coins. Lead was a major byproduct of the process. “For every ounce of silver you produce, you might produce thousands of ounces of lead,” said Joseph McConnell, a climate and environmental scientist at the Desert Research Institute in Reno, Nev. “Nobody could escape it.” McConnell and his colleagues estimated the Romans’ lead expo- sure and reported the rough drop in IQ that epidemiologists have associated with that level of ex- posure. The findings were pub- lished last month in the Proceed- ings of the National Academy of Sciences, The researchers examined air- borne lead that drifted north from ancient Rome and was pre- served in ice cores extracted from Greenland and the Russian Arctic. The samples dated be- tween 2,500 and 1,400 years ago—an era that included the Roman Empire’s rise and fall. The team was able to match the chemical fingerprints of lead found in the cores to the isotopes of lead sources mined within the empire, McConnell said, and at- mospheric modeling also showed the lead’s drift. The work re- vealed that lead pollution peaked during the Pax Romana, a pros- perous period when ancient Rome spanned portions of the Middle East, Europe and North Africa. The researchers’ models showed 3,300 tons to 4,600 tons of lead were emitted annually at the time, suggesting that ancient Romans had lead levels between 2 micrograms and 5 micrograms per deciliter of blood. Other re- search links that amount to a de- cline of around 3 IQ points. In comparison, at the time the Clean Air Act of 1970 was passed to regulate lead and other air- borne pollutants in the U.S., American children averaged about 15 micrograms of lead per deciliter of blood with an associ- ated seven-point drop in IQ, ac- cording to Bruce Lanphear, a professor of health sciences at Simon Fraser University in Brit- ish Columbia. He wasn’t involved in the study. Lead exposure is associated with increases in mortality, pre- term births and anemia as well as reduced cognitive functioning, he said. For children, who are more vulnerable, lead is associ- ated with IQ drops that persist over time. Lanphear said the new study likely underestimates the amount of exposure that belea- guered the Romans, but the per- vasiveness of lead underscores a popular theory that the pollut- ant might have played a role in the empire’s decline. “It gives more weight to the idea that lead was one of many risk factors that could have con- tributed,” he said. “How conse- quential it was, of course, would be difficult to say.” FROM TOP: NICK LU; JOHN GRESS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE/GETTY IMAGES FRISO GENTSCH/PICTURE ALLIANCE/GETTY IMAGES C6 | Saturday/Sunday, February 22 - 23, 2025 THE WALL STREET JOURNAL.
