METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: BARBARA FOTINE ATKINS North Las Vegas, Nev. Alan Dershowitz makes several good points in his Feb....
ID: 47

CONTENT:
BARBARA FOTINE ATKINS North Las Vegas, Nev. Alan Dershowitz makes several good points in his Feb. 13 letter “The Echoes of Jefferson in Trump’s Presi- dency,” but we shouldn’t overread the similarities. While Jefferson agreed to purchase the Louisiana Territory without prior congressional approval, he nevertheless adhered to the Con- stitution’s provision that the presi- dent “shall have Power... to make Treaties, provided two-thirds of the Senators present concur.” Mr. Dershowitz also writes that he “railed against the judiciary for taking too much power.” It wasn’t so simple. Upon becoming president, Jefferson sought to remove many of the “mid- night judges” that President John Ad- ams had installed with the Judiciary Act of 1801. His attack, then, wasn’t so much on the judiciary as it was against his predecessor. Finally, Mr. Dershowitz notes that Jefferson “imposed trade restrictions on foreign countries.” Jefferson or- dered an embargo on trade with France and Britain because both na- tions were engaged in the Napoleonic Wars. Britain would impress American seamen into the Royal Navy to aug- ment its ranks. Jefferson’s action was a way of preventing that practice and maintaining American neutrality, a precedent set by George Washington. President Trump may do well to emulate Jefferson, but he’s not there yet. JOSEPH B. DIPOMPEO Mountain Lakes, N.J. Offering Two Cents About Retiring the Penny Regarding Bob Greene’s Feb. 11 op-ed “Trump Stops Making Cents”: The president’s decision to retire the penny is long overdue. The savings will be small change, but it’s a good litmus test of what is politically feasible in Washington. If we can’t agree to stop using valuable metals to produce unambiguously less valu- able pennies—and nickels, for that matter—then what hope do we have when it comes to the big parts of the federal budget? ArT CARDEN Birmingham, Ala. Mr. Greene’s piece reminded me of the fun and occasional profit that “pitching pennies” gave to me and other kids in the 1940s and 1950s. You and your opponent battled to see who had the skill, finesse and of- ten plain luck to toss a penny closest to an agreed upon sidewalk crack, a specified distance from the chosen baseline. The closest penny won all tossed pennies, with a “liner” land- ing on the target paying double and requiring all losers to cough up a second cent for the winner. A good player could easily buy a jaw breaker from the gum-ball machine and likely even more. A bottle of Coke then cost five cents. RicH BOGDANOVICH Denver Is there an organization anywhere still in business that produces a prod- uct costing over two times what it sells for? Of course—only the U.S. Treasury, only the U.S. government.
