METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: NVVLUQNONARULEAAY ANIM ~ il a “virus of Ukrainian-ness.” Former Russian President Dmitry Medvedev...
ID: 76

CONTENT:
NVVLUQNONARULEAAY ANIM ~ il a “virus of Ukrainian-ness.” Former Russian President Dmitry Medvedev, now the head of Russia’s ruling party, wrote in December that the residents of Ukraine “must quell the pride of being different, abandon their opposition to a common Rus- sian project, and exorcise the de- mons of political Ukrainian-ness.” If they don’t obey, he added, Ukraine will be wiped out. The ruthless methods employed by Russian troops and secret police in occupied Ukrainian territory to- day—including abductions and extra- judicial = executions—consciously mimic the horrors of the Stalin era, said Oleksandra Matviichuk, founder of the Centre for Civil Liberties, a nongovernment organization that in- vestigates Russian war crimes. “They are doing it once again be- cause they were never punished for it the previous time,” said Matvii- chuk, whose group won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2022. “The Nazi war criminals ended up on trial in Nu- remberg, but those who ran the So- viet Gulag were neither prosecuted nor sentenced. There was impunity.” Not content with denying the Ho- lodomor and other Soviet atrocities, Putin’s Russia is honoring their per- petrators, erecting monuments to Stalin and Felix Dzerzhinsky, the founder of the Soviet secret police. In Melitopol, the biggest city in occu- pied southern Ukraine, Russian au- thorities have named a street and a military unit after Pavel Sudoplatov, who oversaw assassination squads for Stalin, including the one that killed Leon Trotsky in Mexico in 1940. Meanwhile, independent Rus- sian historians, including those who discovered the mass graves of Ukrai- nian intellectuals at Sandarmokh in 1997, have been thrown in prison. Putin himself has highlighted the importance of rewriting Ukrainian history to fit the Russian imperial project. In July 2021, the Russian president published an essay titled “On the Historical Unity of the Rus- sians and Ukrainians,” dismissing the notion of a separate Ukrainian identity. The treatise, riddled with inaccuracies, was read aloud to Russian soldiers to justify the full- scale invasion of Ukraine seven months later. “The big war started with an es- say on history, and the guy who wrote that essay is still running the show,” said Serhii Plokhy, director of the Ukrainian Research Institute at Harvard. “So the idea that this is all about territory and that you have to make a deal, somehow drawing the border in the right place...is based on not understanding what this war is about.” Yaroslav Trofimov is the chief for- eign-affairs correspondent of The Wall Street Journal. His new novel “No Country for Love,” based on his family’s history in mid-20th century Ukraine, was published this month by Little, Brown. we visited. And there was always the possibility that she might pop by during a short visit home from Mo- naco. Many years later I was told that the house we shoveled clear was not cooked up the story to make me feel better about Kelly’s home, that my father @) Shoveling teDm, SHOW for vovmg © rlneess TARGETS (| as Grace of QuEENAN Nf onaco My father WHEN 1 GOT MY rotator cuff d\ repaired four years ago, my an physical therapist told me that I bonded should stop lifting up heavy suit- cases to put them in airplane over the storage bins and should never touch of again shovel snow. glamour he The airplane dictum was no problem; I simply started checking attached to my luggage, something I had hel ping him never done before. But the snow- do chores shoveling interdiction was an- for cash other matter entirely. I love shov- eling snow. This has been true since I was about age 8 because shoveling snow was a great way to make money when I was grow- ing up in Philadelphia. Shoveling snow connects me emotionally with my father, who would take me along to help clear sidewalks and driveways when he = a7 ) —, Y was short of cash or out of work. As he so often was. Most neighborhoods in Phila- delphia are economically mono- chromatic, but East Falls, where I grew up, was not. It included a solid middle-class section, an old working-class section, a dreary housing project (where my family lived) and a posh district called Warden Drive, home to Arlen Specter, who’d go on to serve in the Senate for decades. Years later, when I twice ran into Specter on the Metroliner traveling to Washington, D.C., we would exchange anecdotes about YO, ‘ + East Falls, which we both loved. I doubt that Specter ever visited my old housing project. But at least he knew where it was. Near Specter’s home, I knew from my father, was the sweet lit- tle house where Grace Kelly grew up. Kelly, an uncharacteristically radiant Philadelphian, was the daughter of a famous Olympian rower who dominated the city’s brick industry. Grace was long gone from the neighborhood by the time my dad took me up to shovel her path, but I still remem- ber that we got great tips and hot chocolate and cookies each time our epic cash-raising adven- tures. I’m happy that he lied about Grace Kelly’s house; I never forgot the mornings we spent shoveling snow together and the sense that we were connected, how- ever tangentially, with Hollywood. Child psychologists say that you should never lie to children, but I disagree. If the deception in- volves luminous movie stars, go right ahead and lie. When it snowed the other day, I sneaked out before my wife woke up and shoveled the drive- way, using only my left arm. She does not think that this is such a great idea, especially if the footing is icy. But when the snow is not too heavy you can effortlessly shovel it with just the one hand, so long as you limit the size of each scoop and try to push rather than lift most of it out of the way. If the snow is too heavy or too wet, you are better off hiring some young person to do it for you. I don’t want to tear my rotator cuff again, and I don’t want to die of a heart attack out there, but I really don’t want to give up shov- eling snow. It makes me happy that I am the only man in my neighborhood who does this, that none of my generic neighbors rake their leaves or shovel their snow. Though they sometimes let their wives do it. Shoveling snow connects me with days of yore when my father would roust me out of bed at day- break and announce that we were going to shovel the path in front of Grace Kelly’s house and come home with pockets full of cash. I never see “Rear Window” or “Dial M for Murder” or “High Noon” without thinking about those glorious mornings when we joyously cleared the path in front of her house. You can tell me that Grace Kelly never lived in that cute little house, that she grew up in a larger mansion a ways down the street. But I can’t think of one single rea- son why I have to believe you. SERGEY DOLZHENKO/EPA/SHUTTERSTOCK
