METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR Trump Should Opt for Jefferson Over Jackson Peggy Noonan summarizes the po-...
ID: 46

CONTENT:
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR Trump Should Opt for Jefferson Over Jackson Peggy Noonan summarizes the po- litical tensions created by the seventh president’s exercise of executive au- thority (“Trump, Jackson and the Pol- itics of Crisis,’ Declarations, Feb. 15). Yet left unsaid is the mess Andrew Jackson bequeathed his successors in the years leading to the Civil War. Those mostly undistinguished men failed tests of peaceful westward expansion, treatment of native inhab- itants and resolution of the slavery question. Like Mr. Trump, the roughhewn Jackson claimed his mandate from the frustrations of the “common people.” Mr. Trump once bragged that he could shoot someone on Fifth Avenue without consequence. Jackson did shoot and kill someone in a duel. The voters didn’t care. But political change doesn’t require a crude per- sona or disregard for constitutional norms. The Jeffersonian Revolution of 1800 expanded democracy and re- duced central-government overreach. If they could speak to us, every president who served more than four years might warn about the second- term curse. While Mr. Trump may avoid it, his reputation will be more secure if he emulates Thomas Jeffer- son rather than Andrew Jackson. GEOFFREY EVANS MoorRE San Diego Ms. Noonan refers to the “rabble mob,” people from all walks of life who showed up in Washington in 1829 when Jackson was sworn in as presi- dent. In his own observation that day, Sen. Daniel Webster said: “Persons have come from five hundred miles to see General Jackson and they really seem to think that the country has been rescued from some dreadful dan- ger.” That allusion to the threat of “some dreadful danger” isn’t dissimi- lar to Mr. Trump’s warnings that, “if we lose this election, we won’t have a country anymore.” It sounds to me as if there was a precursor to the MAGA movement nearly 200 years ago— along with the same skeptics who didn’t understand the message. The more things change, the more they stay the same.
