METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: HERB ZIMMERMAN Charlotte, N.C. Our Eyes Are Less Cloudy Thanks to Kelman Regarding Andrew Lam’s F...
ID: 48

CONTENT:
HERB ZIMMERMAN Charlotte, N.C. Our Eyes Are Less Cloudy Thanks to Kelman Regarding Andrew Lam’s Feb. 8 op-ed “The Doctor and the Pilot Who Saved the Eyesight of Millions”: Dr. Harold Ridley’s medical triumph in creating the artificial intraocular lens is only slightly more significant than that of another ophthalmolo- gist, Dr. Charles Kelman (1930-2004). Kelman invented modern cataract surgery when he came up with the idea of inserting an ultrasound nee- dle into the eye and evacuating the cataract through a self-sealing 3mm or 4mm incision, rather than the conventional 10mm one. The latter required painstaking and time-con- suming sutures, which often had to be removed, caused blur by creating astigmatism and delayed healing and good vision for several weeks. Like Ridley, Kelman was vilified by the ophthalmology community. He was accused of needlessly blinding The Good Samaritan Meets America’s Southern Border In “The Pope vs. JD Vance on Immigration” (Houses of Worship, Feb. 14), Fr. Raymond J. de Souza reminds us of Jesus’ message to love our neighbors as ourselves. But I wonder: Is granting Latin and Central American migrants refuge in our country the most loving re- sponse? Or is it to help their home countries recover from the socialist ideals that have consistently produced generations of strongmen who in turn have immiserated their people? Relieve some pressure on current leaders via emigration—or use our influence to help force the changes necessary for millions of people to re- main in their country amid their own cultures? One sounds like loving my neighbor and the other harming him. T. BRYAN BARD Boiling Springs, Pa. Letters intended for publication should be emailed to wsj.ltrs@wsj.com. Please include your city, state and telephone number. All letters are subject to editing, and unpublished letters cannot be acknowledged. his patients in his misguided, selfish crusade to improve an operation that was already successful. To his credit, Kelman shrugged it off and perfected the technique, to our benefit. Even more incredible is that his idea—creating a small incision and working inside the body using beau- tifully designed instruments—is what inspired other surgical specialists to adopt small-incision laparoscopic techniques that we now take for granted and that allow us to go home the day after a gallbladder op- eration. We owe much to such medi- cal giants as Charles Kelman. ARI WEITZNER, M.D. New York DOGE and the MUSKeteers Acolytes, minions, foot soldiers. These are only some of the labels attached to the employees at the Department of Government Efficiency. In his Feb. 11 column “Democrats Stand Up for the Bureaucrats” (Free Expression), Gerard Baker adds DO- GEniks to the list. It is time to agree on a standard, and the best choice is clear: Behold, the MUSKeteers.
