METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: By Max NorMAN HE ITALIAN artist Maurizio Catte- lan’s “Comedian” consists of a banana duct-taped ...
ID: 86

CONTENT:
By Max NorMAN HE ITALIAN artist Maurizio Catte- lan’s “Comedian” consists of a banana duct-taped to a blank white wall. One edition of the work was purchased at Sotheby’s this past November for over $6 million by a tech entre- preneur who later ate it on stage in Hong Kong. It wasn’t the first time someone ate Mr. Cattelan’s banana: A performance artist enjoyed the expensive snack when the work was first displayed, in 2019, with a fresh banana at Art Basel Miami Beach, an annual carnival of con- temporary art and conspicuous consumption— though usually not quite so literally. At an earlier iteration of that fair, after perusing the art on display, Morgan Falconer, an art historian and Sotheby’s Institute of Art faculty member, found that much of the work trading in the red-hot art market—now valued at more than $60 billion annually—left him cold. “All the wealth that nurtures it seems only to increase its aura of power and mys- tique, and hence its distance from us,” Mr. Fal- coner writes in “How to Be Avant-Garde,” a group biography of the modern artists who at one point or another had enough of the artistic status quo. Avant-garde artists hoped to end the arts as an institution. They wound up expanding it. “We will destroy the museums, libraries, academies of every kind,” declared the Italian writer Filippo Tommaso Marinetti in “The Founding and Manifesto of Futurism” (1909), a call-to-arms against the stultifying weight of the past. “Set fire to the library shelves! Turn aside the canals to flood the museums!” Mari- netti and his followers wanted to move beyond the traditional cultural categories of art and artist—not only in salons and galleries but also on the grandest scale. Instead of “an armchair for the tired businessman,” as Matisse called his paintings, avant-gardists wanted their work to become a motor for social progress. Plenty of artists previously had chafed at officially sanctioned styles. Impressionists rejected the academic canons of taste and sought to produce works that represented how the world was actually experienced; bohemians such as the poet Guillaume Apollinaire had lives as chaotic as their work, flouting bour- geois proprieties; the Cubists sought to scramble schemas of representation. But being avant-garde, Mr. Falconer reminds us, meant going yet further and abandoning art as tradi- tionally conceived. “Humanity will not lose much by missing art,” the painter Piet Mon- drian once wrote. Mondrian’s friend Theo van Doesburg, the founder of the Dutch movement known as De Stijl, was more blunt: “Art has poisoned our life.” “Avant-garde” is military jargon—it refers to troops sent beyond the front line—and the artistic movement was galvanized by World wa ULLSTEIN BILD/GETTY IMAGES — War I. Marinetti served, as did Walter Gropius, the architect who founded the Bauhaus (which Mr. Falconer describes as an “institutionaliza- tion of the avant-garde”). André Breton, the author of the 1924 “Surrealist Manifesto,” treated the wounded as a junior doctor and could never unhear their incoherent babbling and trauma-tinged dreams. Felt from neutral Zurich, the conflict’s chaos shook Hugo Ball and Emmy Hennings, the founders of the Dada movement, and Tristan Tzara, Dada’s greatest publicist, inspiring the artists’ visual and verbal assemblages. Collage was one of the most powerful avant- garde aesthetic innovations. But nothing is more emblematic of the avant-garde, and its fate, than Marcel Duchamp’s “Fountain” (1917), the urinal he presented on a pedestal under the name “R. Mutt” at an exhibition of the Society of Independent Artists in New York. Duchamp attacked the idea of art as distinct from every- day life. But, in Mr. Falconer’s telling, “Foun- tain” failed. It could only “reveal the creative unfreedom that existed within this new and FUTURIST Filippo Tommaso Marinetti with a sculpture by Mino Rosso in 1933. pee 2aee: gawrEe. — ae ae : - supposedly liberated art world, and it had to become artwork in order to do so.” Duchamp tried to break art, but instead he expanded it. Avant-gardists briefly came close to melding art and life in post-Revolutionary Russia. The poet Vladimir Mayakovsky made advertise- ments for Soviet-produced goods in the ’20s; the artist Vladimir Tatlin designed a functional Monument to the Third International that would have served as a building for the Comintern, though it was never built. Yet the avant-garde’s greatest legacy is aesthetic—not social or political—change. After World War II, “old modes of opposi- tion had outlived their usefulness,” Mr. Fal- coner writes. Rather than shocking the public, the avant-gardists delighted it, becoming glam- orous darlings of the modern media. The book’s final character, the French philosopher Guy Debord, was a theorist of what came next: the spectacle. So-called Neo-avant-garde artists such as Andy Warhol and Piero Manzoni (infa- mous for selling cans of his own feces) contin- ued, like Duchamp, to critique the art world, > PPL IT ee — etry: __ —_— SPT ry. - but rarely changed it. In Mr. Falconer’s assess- ment, “Comedian,” which bears the mantle, “merely pushes at an open door and panders to a gleeful defeatism.” Mr. Falconer’s complaints will ring true for many readers, but his treatment of contempo- rary art is cursory. The real villain in this story is the art market, but an analysis of its malign influence never comes. Mr. Falconer does single out a few artists who’ve continued to push art beyond its traditional bounds: There’s Robert Smithson, who created the monumental 1970 earth sculpture “Spiral Jetty,” and Jeremy Deller, who stationed uniformed World War I re-enactors throughout Britain to commemo- rate the Battle of the Somme in 2016. But there are others—artist-activists like the Guerrilla Girls or Barbara Kruger, to name two—who go unmentioned. The art world has come to resemble a cir- cus. But artists are not the ones to blame. Mr. Norman reviews books for the Journal and other publications. The Best Disguise For Heroes Paris Undercover months, with the help of an ini- tially reluctant Shiber, Bonnefous helped rescue at least 20 British soldiers—all in the absence of an organized French resistance movement and with minimal aid from British intelligence. Mr. Goodman tells us the duo’s lined faces, eyeglasses and gray England. Over the next four
