METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: By FREYA DROHAN OS ANGELES designer Pia Mance, 28, launched her jewelry brand Heaven Mayhem in 20...
ID: 95

CONTENT:
By FREYA DROHAN OS ANGELES designer Pia Mance, 28, launched her jewelry brand Heaven Mayhem in 2022 with necklaces and earrings. When she began pinning those earrings onto her blouses and blazers, a new addition to her line seemed inevitable: brooches. “I wanted to reinvent how peo- ple today are wearing them,” Mance said. On social media she declared, “Brooches have a new PR agent.” These days, it turns out, they have many. Once forgotten relics asso- ciated with slightly embar- rassing aunts, brooches are from the 1940s and 1960s are moving fastest, says Alexis Hoopes, vice president of global fashion. When it comes to styling these gleaming darlings, new ways to place or combine them have emerged as a timely topic. “Brooches aren’t as com- mon as other jewelry pieces,” said New York writer Casey Kohlberg, 31, of the humble pin’s appeal. Her latest piece? A mini “tele- phone dial” from Schiapa- relli, crafted from brass, enamel and hammered-gold. “It’s really heavy, so I might wear it on a big chain,” she said. Kohlberg has also un- earthed a collection she amassed as a teen—Chanel brooches designed by Karl ‘People are a little over “quiet luxury.” Brooches are a way to add some personality back into a look? taking over as the accessory de rigueur. “People are a little over ‘quiet luxury.’ Brooches are a way to add some personal- ity back into a look,” said New York stylist Caitlin Burke. “In the past, it was your grandma’s brooch just on the lapel; now there’s a spotlight on creative styling.” To adorn her clients in in- novative ways, Burke mixes old and new pieces, seeking fresh designs from brands like Bevza and Phoebe Philo, and scouring resale site Ves- tiaire Collective for vintage scores. Vestiaire’s North America CEO, Samina Virk, reports that searches for brooches increased by 60% year-over-year in 2024. Brooches are experiencing a “major comeback,” con- firms Noelle Sciacca, associ- ate director of fashion & strategic partnerships at the RealReal, another resale site. She reports that preloved treasures from luxury brands such as Chanel, Cartier and Yves Saint Laurent are par- ticularly tempting shoppers. Demand for bygone pins by Van Cleef & Arpels, another top seller, has also shot up. On eBay, brooch styles Lagerfeld—and now peppers them onto her handbags in place of traditional charms. Agus Panzoni, a trend fore- caster at the secondhand marketplace Depop, recom- mends brooches to anyone looking to distinguish an oth- erwise mundane look—and # Make more brooches merrier by picking a theme. Here, an owl, peacock feather and ostrich plume adorn a menswear- inspired coat. From left: Modern Moghul Brooches, $2,400 and $1,700; Indress Brooch, about $240; Tibi Coat, $389 STYLE & FASHION Whimsically worn on the hip, a delicate floral pin breaks up the monotony of a black dress. Larkspur & Hawk Antique Brooch, $3,500; Déen Dress, $368 start a conversation. Victoria Brito, 31, a New York City-based model, likes to do both. She bedazzles her collection of cowboy hats with thrift-store brooch finds. If someone asks about a certain piece, she said, “I like to take it off and hand it to them to see where they would put it.” Her advice? Lean into the fun of the hunt. “The right brooch will find you.” Lauren Kulchinsky Levison, 54, goes well beyond hats in her quest for novel place- ments. A curator for her fam- Saturday/Sunday, 4 A A feminine take on a tie pin: Use a brooch (or a few) to secure a silk scarf high at the neck. Lili Claspe Brooches, $35 each; Chava Studio Shirt, $420; Hermés Scarf, $490 Add pizazz to a minimalist jacket or cardigan by repurposing brooches as custom buttons. AGMES Brooches, $370, and $500; Another Tomorrow Coat, $2,490; Banana Republic Turtleneck, $760 ily’s jewelry store, Mayfair Rocks, in East Hampton, NY., the avid collector likes to wear her pins on shirt cuffs or positioned at the hip. No fan of heavy necklaces or large earrings, she acces- sorizes dresses with ornate curved brooches that rest, more traditionally, neatly un- derneath her clavicle. Brooches are also the only way you’ll catch her wearing a watch. “I have a pin with a small diamond-covered clock that flips open.” To manipulate the drape of an oversize dress, Burke often reaches for a brooch to create a more defined waist, placing it or multiples at the hip. An- other unexpected brooch ap- proach? If, when she’s con- cocting an outfit, she finds a belt too visually harsh, she might style a brooch off-cen- ter on the waistband, she added. “It draws the eye to the waist and defines the out- fit, but it’s not as hard as a belt might be.” Kulchinsky Levison has a penchant for nature-inspired designs that adopt the forms of pufferfish or sunflowers. Among her favorites are ones by British jeweler Ste- phen Webster. “A lady never tells how many boys she’s kissed or how many brooches are in her [jew- elry] box,” she quipped. Canadian jewelry designer Jenny Bird, whose brooches cost under $100, attributes the renaissance in part to a current interest in investing in “pieces with longevity that we can lean on” in times of instability. This season, her epony- mous brand introduced a simple design in the shape of an egret—a traditional sym- bol of harmony and balance. “Brooches carry the emo- tions of the time down to fu- ture generations,” she said. “They’re badges of personal expression.” Especially if worn on your hip or cuff. PRADA.COM ELIZABETH COETZEE/WSJ: STYLING BY CAITIE KELLY: FASHION ASSIST BY CHRISTINA MIDDLETON: TALENT IS EVA HENDRICKS/MUSE MANAGEMENT GETTY IMAGES (2) D4 | Saturday/Sunday, February 22 - 23, 2025 KK KK THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. STYLE & FASHION Fashion ‘Turned on Fur. Now Everyone Wants It. For years, consumers shunned fur. Now dealers across the country say they’re seeing sales of vintage and used coats rise.
