METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: By Sophie Madeline Dess the form of a hard-boiled detec- tive novel. Its story launches from the ...
ID: 85

CONTENT:
By Sophie Madeline Dess the form of a hard-boiled detec- tive novel. Its story launches from the grisly crimes of what appears to be a serial killer: Four men are found dead, each of them castrated. But the book immediately departs from typical crime proce- durals, and not just because the character known as the Detective does no actual detective work. Accompanying each mutilated body is a poem by Alejandra Pizarnik, a tortured and intense real-life midcentury Argentine poet who died by suicide at the age of 36. The woman who dis- covered the first corpse is a liter- ature professor named, like the author, Cristina Rivera Garza, and the Detective explains that the investigation is “full of psycholog- ical nooks and crannies. Of poetic shadows. Gender traps. Meta- phors. Metonyms.” The figurative nature of the murders becomes more pronounced when the killer sends a series of messages claim- ing the identities of various avant-garde feminist artists, and finally submits a confession in the form of a book of prose poems. And the castrations? Yes, those are metaphoric, too, and they direct the nonplussed reader to the psychoanalyst Jacques Lacan’s concept of “symbolic cas- tration,” representing our funda- mental split from our desires. The crimes are signs of psychic dis- memberments, which I’d imagine are especially tough for your average gumshoe to solve. Ms. Garza’s prose, translated from the Spanish by Robin Myers and Sarah Booker, is actually fairly gripping, clipped and claus- trophobic in the way of a thriller. The eerie aura of suspense makes one guardedly willing to navigate the maze of allusions and sym- bolic “signifiers”—it’s a hell of a lot more readable than Lacan, at the very least. Even so, as the book grinds on, tossing up more “clues” in the form of obscure names and literary fragments, it becomes harder to shake the sus- picion that the real key to under- standing it all is not an open mind and some googling, but many thousands of dollars in postgraduate studies. A secret language is shared by sister and brother Ava and Deme- tri Stern in “What You Make of Me” (Penguin Press, 288 pages, $29), a debut novel by Sophie Madeline Dess. Both artistically precocious since childhood, Ava is a painter and Demetri is a docu- mentary filmmaker. The wider world hardly exists for the pair— each one’s primary audience and critic is the other. But when the book begins, Demetri is dying of cancer. Ava is left alone to reflect on their codependent relationship, and as she flashes back to scenes from their past she prepares the catalog for her first solo exhibi- tion, which is composed entirely of portraits of her brother. There is no club more exclusive than that of brilliant, close-knit siblings, and Ms. Dess’s challenge is to ensure that readers aren’t also excluded from her characters’ particular mind meld. She does this by focusing on the ruptures that drive them apart, partly in the person of a chic gallery owner who becomes a love interest to both. But the artistic calling cre- ates the most stubborn conflict, as Ava’s need to paint Demetri—to “miniaturize” him on the canvas— becomes a means of control he struggles to escape. In the juxta- position of Ava’s paintings with her memories, Ms. Dess shrewdly explores the intersections between intimacy and possession. KKK *K THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. Saturday/Sunday, February 22 - 23, 2025 | Cll BOOKS ‘The character itself of being startling, spectacular, or upsetting has become conventionalized, part of safe good taste.’ —cLEMENT GREENBERG How to Be Avant-Garde
