METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: KKK KK KKK THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. U.S. NEWS At Town Halls, Republicans Take Heat for Trump’s Mo...
ID: 35

CONTENT:
KKK KK KKK THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. U.S. NEWS At Town Halls, Republicans Take Heat for Trump’s Moves Testy meetings in some GOP districts offer an early warning for the White House At a town-hall meeting in a Republican-friendly Atlanta- area district, boos rained down on GOP Rep. Rich Mc- Cormick as he tried to defend President Trump’s efforts to By Catherine Lucey, Meridith McGraw and Lindsay Wise slash the federal government. In one tense exchange be- fore the hundreds of people there, a woman challenged Mc- Cormick over how he would “rein in the megalomaniac in the White House,” according to a video posted by the Atlanta Journal-Constitution of the Thursday event. Eventually, McCormick, whose district backed him by a nearly 2-to-1 margin last year, acknowl- edged the audience’s concerns. “T don’t want to see any president be too powerful,” McCormick said. His office didn’t respond to a request for comment. The contentious scene was one of a series of clashes in GOP congressional districts across the country in recent days that offer an early warn- ing for the White House. While Trump is broadly giving voters what he promised during his campaign, the scope and uni- lateral nature of his early ex- ecutive actions, as well as his upending of longstanding for- eign alliances, is putting some Republican lawmakers on the defensive. At a recent town-hall meet- ing in West Bend, Wis., GOP Rep. Scott Fitzgerald was questioned about spending cuts by the Department of Government Efficiency and Trump’s shift on the Russian invasion of Ukraine, according to local news reports. Partici- pants at events also pressed Rep. Kevin Hern (R., Okla.) and Rep. Cliff Bentz (R., Ore.) about Elon Musk’s involvement in the DOGE federal downsiz- ing effort, which has included mass firings of federal work- ers, local reports show. Protesters gathered outside some GOP offices in Arizona, Iowa, Pennsylvania and New York. Phone calls continue to pour into Republican and Democratic offices following an uptick last month when the
