METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: By AustIN RAMzy HONG KONG—The militar- ies of China and Russia, Amer- ica’s top two global advers...
ID: 40

CONTENT:
By AustIN RAMzy HONG KONG—The militar- ies of China and Russia, Amer- ica’s top two global adversar- ies, are working together as never before in their long partnership, probing the de- fenses of the U.S. and its allies. The message to America from the growing partnership is that, if drawn into a mili- tary conflict, U.S. forces could find themselves confronting both countries. Chinese-Russian joint pa- trols and military exercises have become more frequent and increasingly assertive, a re- view of recent activity shows— and the U.S. and its allies have been forced to respond more frequently as well, scrambling jet fighters and other assets to safeguard territory. Beijing and Moscow have been displaying close coopera- tion near Japan, South Korea and the Philippines, nations that the U.S. has pledged to de- fend, and Taiwan, to which the U.S. sells weapons and provides training. Alongside growing military ties between Russia and U.S. foe North Korea, the prospect of battling multiple enemies compounds the challenge for the U.S. as it prepares and strategizes for a potential con- flict in Asia. The point was made closer to home in July, when Russian and Chinese warplanes took off from a Russian air base and flew to- gether past Alaska, prompting the U.S. and Canada to send jet fighters to intercept them. U.S. officials said it was the first time strategic bombers from Russia and China operated to- gether near North America. “The locations and assets in- volved in these exercises are becoming more expansive and aggressive,” said Jacob Stokes, a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security, a Washington think tank. Chinese leader Xi Jinping and Russia’s Vladimir Putin made a display of their partner- ship in the hours after President Trump took office last month, publicizing a video chat in which they called each other “old friend” and pledged to deepen cooperation. “Make no mistake, this is an escalation,” Republican Sen. Dan Sullivan of Alaska said in July of the flight of Chinese and Russian bombers past his state. The flyby was followed in October by a joint patrol to the Arctic through the Bering Strait involving two Russian border guard ships and two cutters of the Chinese coast guard. The two powers made an- other joint display in December at a sensitive Asian hot spot. As China’s navy was massing for one of its largest shows of force around Taiwan in years, four Russian warships sailed past the self-ruled island. Three Russian corvettes, ac- companied by a Russian fuel- supply ship, communicated with Chinese warships as they approached in what appeared to be a coordinated drill, a Tai- wanese security official said. @ Computer simulation (virtual war games) Bi Multi-domain (multiple military forces) WS Ground Paramilitary B Naval \ International competitions © Aerial patrol VL, Na One military exercise foe} lon) ee SSNS ER ss ZS) Eo EE ae re nee a ~ ZZ 1177/7 EEE SS oO 2003 ’05 Note: 2024 data is through Aug. 7 Ww ‘20 Source: China Power Project, Center for Strategic and International Studies Russian and Chinese ships were also spotted at the time in the waters surrounding Japan and South Korea, according to Taiwanese officials. In all, nearly 100 Chinese warships and vessels were spotted across the region, Taiwan said. China and Russia say their military exercises don’t target other countries. But they have come uncomfortably close to American allies. As Chinese and Russian ships carried out a series of joint exercises near Japan in September, a Russian patrol aircraft repeatedly entered Jap- anese airspace near Hokkaido. Japan sent jet fighters that fired warning flares at the Rus- sian plane. The rising threat from China has pushed the U.S. to deepen its military cooperation with Japan. Trump, after meeting with Prime Minister Shigeru Ishiba at the White House this month, said the U.S. was “to- tally committed to the security of Japan.” Working together at an in- creasing tempo, Russia and China have now conducted more than 100 joint exercises since 2003, according to a database maintained by the Center for Strategic and International Studies’ China Power Proj- ect. The geographical range of the cooperation has expanded, sending a message of broader reach and widening the range of potential conflict. The October passage through the Bering Strait was the Chinese coast guard’s first joint patrol with Russia in Arc- tic waters. The U.S. Coast Guard, which monitored the ships by air, said it was the far- thest north a Chinese cutter had been spotted. China has also been broad- ening its maritime reach on its own. Three Chinese ships said Friday they would conduct live- fire exercises in waters between Australia and New Zealand, in drills that New Zealand Defense Minister Judith Collins said were the Chinese navy’s “most significant and sophisti- cated we have seen this far south.” China and Russia conducted their first joint exercise in the South China Sea in September 2016, just two months after an international tribunal ruled in favor of the Philippines against China’s claims over the disputed waters. With Trump’s return to the White House, U.S. security commitments are _ being stress-tested. Trump this week began a reversal of U.S. policy toward Russia with re- gard to Ukraine—which like Taiwan has relied on U.S. sup- port to fend off the territorial claims of its larger neighbor. On Taiwan, Trump hasn’t declared any change to Wash- ington’s policy of ambiguity. The U.S. president, how- ever, has demanded that allies spend more on their own de- fense, adding to concerns across Asia about how to con- front threats from China—and, possibly, Russia as well. Chinese Navy Drills Draw Ire In Australia
