METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: By JAMES CAMPBELL RNEST Hemingway’s World War I novel, “A Farewell to Arms” (1929), is an excep- ...
ID: 89

CONTENT:
By JAMES CAMPBELL RNEST Hemingway’s World War I novel, “A Farewell to Arms” (1929), is an excep- tion among products of early 20th-century Modernism. While it is innovative in its render- ing of conversation and painterly descriptions of nature, it proved to have huge popular appeal by virtue of the subject matter. Courage under fire, romantic love, near- death experience, flight from dan- ger, a tragic denouement—all are related in intimate detail. Some of the writing now reads like a Hem- ingway parody of the kind that flourished later, and much of Fred- eric Henry and Catherine Barkley’s love talk would have been spiked by True Romances (a magazine established as Hemingway was coming to the fore). But the sub- stance holds. The novel sold by the tens of thousands, was widely translated and was adapted for the ‘A Farewell to Arms’ announced Ernest Hemingway’s arrival as amajor force in American letters. screen in 1932, three years after publication. Hemingway disliked the film, despite the presence of Gary Cooper, and made efforts to sidestep the fame the film brought him, though he succumbed to it, with few good outcomes. Hemingway was a_ teenager when he volunteered to serve as a Red Cross ambulance driver in Italy late in the war. He arrived in the north of the country in June 1918 for noncombatant duties that involved the distribution of ciga- rettes and chocolate to soldiers struggling against Austrian and German forces near the Piave River. His service was barely a month old when he was wounded. The explo- sion changed his war, changed his life and eventually changed the way large numbers of American writers and readers regarded the art of fiction. The damage occurred when a trench mortar blew up a few feet from where he was standing. The man next to him was killed. More than 200 fragments of the bomb lodged in Hemingway’s legs. His heroic action in ferrying wounded men to shelter was rewarded with a medal. While in a hospital he fell in love with an American nurse, Agnes von Kurowsky. In letters home, and in the tales he told, he embellished his actions at the front, as he admitted; nothing seri- ous but characteristic of a man who could be as deceitful as he was faithful, vengeful where he had been loving, obsessed by violence and gleeful when inflicting it, on man and (particularly) beast. Each of these qualities went into “A Farewell to Arms,” Hemingway’s second novel (third, if you count the misguided “Torrents of Spring”). He began writing it a decade after his brief encounter with the war zone. The book con- tains passages of wonderful descriptive writing, including the accounts of the blast that tempo- rarily incapacitates the narrator, Frederic, landing him in a hospital, and of the strategic disaster of the retreat from Caporetto. Because the novel is partly autobiographi- cal, some readers assume that Hemingway witnessed the retreat. He didn’t, but the hospital sections are based on firsthand experience. Frederic’s nurse, Catherine, is not American, like the real-life Agnes; nor is she English, as is often sup- posed. “I am Scotch and crazy,” she says, although her dialogue has not the faintest Scottish tinge—a fail- ure on Hemingway’s part. In fact, Catherine exhibits little personality, far less craziness: Her role is to reflect Frederic’s wishes and desires. My bookshelves support various editions of “A Farewell to Arms,” each differing in certain respects from the others. The first British edition was published in the same year as the U.S. original, and both were subject to the suppression of profanities and obscenities. Hem- ingway complained ceaselessly about what he called “the words,” claiming that they accurately rep- resented soldierly talk and that his realism was dented by the censor- ship. While he protested in polite terms to Maxwell Perkins, his edi- tor at Scribner’s, he was enraged at Jonathan Cape in London, who had gone further. “I think I am through with them I hope to God for good,” he told Perkins. “I’m disgusted with his yellow deletions. They cut sen- tences out without a word to me.” Cape continued as Hemingway’s publisher until the end. Next to the defective British ver- sion sits “L’Adieu aux armes,” pub- lished in Paris in 1931. When he learned that the novel was to be translated by Maurice Coindreau— also responsible for introducing French readers to Faulkner, Dos Passos and Steinbeck—Heming- way delivered a personalized copy, with all the publisher’s maddening dashes filled in. He hoped that Coindreau would give the soldiers back their dirty dog talk and crude despair. My copy suggests that Gal- limard was willing to risk the com- mon “merde” and some mild pro- fanities but, like Scribner’s and Cape, drew the line at obscenity. These editions are now joined by what is likely to stand as the definitive text of “A Farewell to Arms,” in the second volume of Hemingway’s works to be pub- lished by the Library of America, featuring writings from the period 1927 to 1932. The book includes the short stories written in France in the mid-1920s and collected as “Men Without Women.” Among them are “Now I Lay Me” and “Hills Like White Elephants,” allu- sive tales that demonstrate the ice- berg technique (seven-eighths of the emotion is below the surface). “The Killers,” 10 pages long, was made into a film with Burt Lancas- ter and Ava Gardner. The fictional works are followed by Heming- way’s anatomy of bullfighting, “Death in the Afternoon” (1932), and a selection of letters. An odd note is struck by the information that “A Farewell to Arms” is “copyright 1929 by Charles Scribner’s Sons” and that the novel appears “by arrange- ment” with the publisher. The Library of America compendium was published in late 2024. Its edi- tor, Robert W. Trogdon, has evi- dently prepared the texts with expertise over a number of years, but it happens that “A Farewell to Arms” emerged from copyright on Jan. 1, 2025, and may henceforth be published, abridged, amended— even censored—without consulta- tion with anyone. Copyright pro- tection in the U.S. extends for 95 years after the end of the year of publication. Thus “Men Without Women” entered the public domain in 2023, “The Sun Also Rises” the year before. “Death in the After- noon,” first published in 1932, remains in copyright, as does each of Hemingway’s subsequent works, according to the 95-year plan. Copyright law may vary from country to country. In Europe, liter- ary works are protected for the lifetime of the author plus 70 years. Hemingway died in 1961, which means that “A Farewell to Arms” is not yet in the public domain in Britain and France. Faulkner’s greatest novel, “The Sound and the Fury,” also shook off U.S. copyright on Jan. 1—but in Europe the event must wait until 2032. What this means for the reader in London accepting an American offer of a copyright-free download of these novels remains to be seen. The arrival of the inter- net has already made a mockery of the law in other areas. The Library of America edition restores Hemingway’s preferred language for soldierly talk (not the first to do so) and comes with an informative essay on spelling and punctuation habits. His stylistic awareness is illustrated by the deliberate omission of the question mark in certain rhetorical utter- ances. In the story “Che Ti Dice La Patria?” this sentence occurs: “Tsn’t he nice, Guy said.” A well- meaning editor replaced Heming- way’s comma with a question mark but, as Mr. Trogdon observes, this alters the “flatly ironic” tone. The most substantial error in the first edition of “A Farewell to Arms” was a distracted typist’s transposi- tion of two paragraphs near the start of chapter 12, a mistake that was carried over into “all subse- quent printings.” Given Heming- way’s obsession with textual meddling elsewhere, it is remark- able that he failed to notice it. Cheap editions of great works have long been readily available. A book is a book is a book, right? Wrong. A book may be easy on the eye or ugly, with print that is accommodating or hard to read, pages laid out well or badly. Most readers are familiar with the glued binding that snaps (“perfect” bind- ing), spilling pages. The reader opting to buy this edition of Hem- ingway’s works is unlikely to regret it. Sometimes it comes down to what feels good to hold in the hand. And a free download doesn’t make much of a gift. Mr. Campbell’s biography of James Baldwin, “Talking at the Gates,” was reissued in a new edition in 2021. A Picture Of Life And Death SUSAN BARKER’S “Old Soul” (Putnam, 352 pages, $29) begins when two stranded travel- ers discover an unsettling coinci- dence: Both of them had loved %, ones who suffered similarly ‘strange and drawn-out deaths. Both behaved strangely in the weeks before dying, both made friends with an unsettling female SCIENCE photographer who took their FICTION & portraits, and both ended up FANTASY with their corpses’ internal Liz BRASWELL organs turned “the wrong way round,” inexplicably reversed. Equally mysteriously, these deaths took place thousands of miles, and many years, apart. Through one of these travelers, Jake, we begin to unravel the mystery of these two deaths—and many more—as he journeys throughout Europe interviewing friends and rel- atives of the victims and following up on clues from photographs and paintings. Each encounter links to a previous one in which the photogra- pher has taken pictures of people with whom she ingratiated herself. They soon died; she remains the same age, even though the tales about her stretch back decades. Every subplot is a beautifully complete, his- torically accurate little world of its own, set in an evocative place: a Welsh village in 1987, an artistic community in East Germany in 1968, a butoh theater troupe in contemporary Japan. And while the vignettes might slow down the pace of the overarching narrative, they are so delightful it’s almost regrettable when each comes to an end—a little like David Mitchell’s “Cloud Atlas,” but with interesting storylines and more carefully differentiated characters. Interspersed are chapters in which the pho- tographer—who seems to be internally decay- ing—lures her next victim out to her fate in the American desert. The woman responsible for all these deaths doesn’t suck blood or turn into a bat, yet she is a terrifying, remorseless creature who seeks eternal life—and does nothing with the extra time granted by her violent acts. The one love in her long life, the THIS WEEK enigmatic Sculp- tor, becomes Old Soul important once By Susan Barker again as Jake comes up with a plan to end the photographer’s existence once and for all. While the process by which her victims’ souls are con- sumed seems unnecessarily complicated, the sort of cosmos that allows such a thing is ren- dered so bleakly that H.P. Lovecraft would be envious. Ms. Barker is the author of several other nov- els, including “The Incarnations,” which also touches on lengthy human existence. Do not miss “Old Soul,” the most satisfyingly grim supernatural novel in years. “Good Night, Sleep Tight” (Coffee House, 256 pages, $19) is a collection of short stories from Brian Evenson, a longtime presence in the world of speculative fiction. Several of the works here are spooky tales that end poorly for the main character and have no greater ambi- tion than to be good yarns. “The Sequence” starts with a pair of sisters playing a creepy game of follow-the-leader; the reader knows immediately it will open some sort of portal to hell, and while the end is inevitable, the journey unfolds so beautifully that it makes for one of the volume’s best pieces. “The Rider” feels familiar in a sort of “terrible nightmare you have every night but can’t quite remember” way. “Cloud of Blood” is straight-up early 20th- century horror—in the best possible way. The collection also includes science-fiction stories, most of which could be reasonably imagined to take place in the same future uni- verse. “Imagine a Forest” has a robot in charge of deciding who gets to live when a colony ship carrying the last surviving humans is partially wrecked. “Servitude” offers a wry look at what happens after human servants overthrow their oligarchic masters (also on a lone colony ship after Earth dies—a recurring theme). We may not trust Als now, but the Als of the future will certainly have no reason to trust the end goals of human revolutionaries. Mr. Evenson seems particularly concerned with what it means to be a mother, father or other kind of parent in the present world and the brave new worlds to come. “Mother” is a beautiful look at a pair of “children” raised in a far-away world by a parent who might not be doing the best job. Nevertheless, her daughter is clever enough to figure out how to right it all. “The Night Archer” looks at the physical and emotional failures of some very human parents, and the horrific results. While Mr. Evenson might not be the next Ray Bradbury, his writing approaches the luxurious, haunted feeling that Bradbury conjured so well. “Never Little, Never Grown,” about an aging woman and her robot companion, could have taken place among the bittersweet stories of “The Martian Chronicles.” “A True Friend” feels like a direct homage to Bradbury’s “The Coffin” (which itself may be an homage to Poe’s “The Cask of Amontillado”). Premature burial seems to be a gruesomely fun concept, regardless of era. It’s almost a shame to have all these stories in the same place; they shouldn’t be read at once for risk of overdosing. Good Night, Sleep Tight
