METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: By JOEL STEIN s you probably recall, I had a mole removed about a year ago. As fresh as this is i...
ID: 73

CONTENT:
By JOEL STEIN s you probably recall, I had a mole removed about a year ago. As fresh as this is in all of our memories, a year is a fair bit of time, so I was surprised to get a bill in the mail for $604.80 from a company called DermTech. Apparently, much like wedding gifts, you have a year to send someone a medical bill. And like a wedding gift, this bill included a friendly note: “Thank you for selecting DermTech for your healthcare needs.” This wasn’t ex- actly true since, before this bill ar- rived, I had never heard of Der- mTech. There was no point in my mole removal process where I said, “Hey doc, if you wind up putting a small sticker on my back to test this mole for basal cell carcinoma, make sure that sticker is from DermTech and not those clowns at DermaSen- sor or Fujirebio.” Had this bill been for anything besides health care, I would have been far more surprised. If a res- taurant supply company mailed me an invoice, explaining that they had encountered some extra expenses for a burger I ate at a restaurant a year ago, and now I owed them $604.80, I’d be confused. Especially if that restaurant didn’t have prices on its menu. Luckily, ’'d been through this un- expected, unexplained medical bill situation before, due to the fact that I’m an American. So I knew that I did not need to review the specifics. Such as the $1,485 origi- nal charge, which my insurance company had paid/adjusted by $880.20, thereby reducing the cost of the testing sticker to $604.80. I knew that these were com- pletely made-up numbers. My high school friend is the vice president of data analytics at a huge hospital. She’s assured me that she does not make up numbers. She determines prices using data and analytics and vice presidency. Yet, by the time bills go through insurance compa- nies or government agencies and get to patients, they are indeed to- tally made up. The American healthcare system is not the only marketplace with made-up numbers. There are also Middle Eastern bazaars, used car lots and Pentagon budgets. And wherever there are made-up num- bers, you can bargain. I knew I could do well in a nego- tiation because DermTech, despite advancing sticker technology more than anyone since the engineers at Scratch and Sniff, is desperate. When you Google “DermTech,” the first result in the “People also ask” section is “Whatever happened to DermTech?” The answer Google provides is “DermTech has filed for How to Not Pay Your Medical Bills Actually, that’s easy. This is how | paid a lot less. Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection and laid off 20% of its staff.” When a company can’t make money on $1,485 stickers, there are definitely holes on the business side you can exploit. I also had leverage because I knew that a huge portion of people don’t pay their medical bills, caus- ing companies such as DermTech to sell these bills to collection agencies for pennies on the dollar. Plus, a 2023 law prevents medical debts of less than $500 from even showing up on your credit reports. I called the number on the bill. I used a friendly voice to tell the friendly woman on the phone that I'd like to pay my bill right now, but I'd like to pay a lot less. I did not tell the woman that the bill was un- fair or that I didn’t have the money or that a year is a long time to wait to charge someone for a sticker. I Parents Who Hire Elite Tutors Are Setting Up Their Kids for Failure simply offered to pay less. She immediately offered me a “20% prompt payment discount.” Which would reduce my $604.80 bill to $947.84. This seemed like the kind of faulty math that would ex- plain DermTech’s Chapter 11 prob- lems. Then the friendly woman typed furiously and discovered that an- other DermTech bill was coming in a few weeks for about $580. This was for a second sticker I’d also used a year ago, one that was ap- parently about $24.80 crappier than the first sticker. I told her I’d pay both bills right now for a much bigger discount than 20%. She offered me 50% off. I offered her $200 for both stickers. She said she’d check with the man- ager and get back to me. I had the feeling I was going to drive out of there with a brand new 1964 Coupe DeVille. She called back and said DermTech would accept $300 for the entire $1,184.80 bill. Was I happy about paying $300 for stickers from a year ago that I never asked for? Extremely. Because there’s nothing more exciting than getting a great deal. It felt even better than finding out I didn’t have skin cancer. A couple of weeks later, I called DermTech to tell them I was writing about my experience and wanted to find out if I could have done even better than $300. Loren Clarke, the company’s chief medical officer called me right back. He said the new, leaner, privately owned Der- mTech couldn’t legally talk about the large, bankrupt DermTech, even though they had the same staff and used the same stickers. I promised never to talk about old DermTech, even at home with my child. Clarke was more upset about my bill than I was, and not because I had screwed him out of $884.80. “The billing team doesn’t want to take people’s money. They want the patients’ insurance to pay for it. ’m glad they were willing to work with you so easily,” he said. His chal- lenge is that if insurance companies find out DermTech is cutting pa- tients’ bills, they’ll claim they vio- lated their contract and stop paying them. They’ll start to wonder if that sticker is as expensive as they claim. The $1,184.80 wasn’t for the stickers, Clarke explained. It was for the four lab technicians who spent two days removing skin cells from stickers, extracting the RNA, converting it to DNA, amplifying the results by polymerase chain re- There’s nothing more exciting than getting a great deal. It felt even better than finding out I didn’t have skin cancer. action and going to a therapist about being unable to explain what they do for a living without boring everyone. And the sticker technol- ogy was much cheaper, more accu- rate, and less painful than the usual practice, a biopsy. Much like it is easier to use a sticker than to scratch and sniff an actual skunk. The DermTech billing depart- ment was indeed empowered to “find whatever they can to work with you.” But my negotiating tech- nique, Clarke said, wasn’t perfect. “If you had called and were irate, they can sometimes reverse the claim and write it off. If someone is really upset with us, we want to take care of that.” Clarke suggests that patients save their angry calls for the huge corpo- rations in no danger of filing for Chapter 11, the ones who don’t even provide medical services: health in- surance companies. I told him that while I was tempted by the prospect of spending three hours being trans- ferred around Blue Shield and then ignored, it didn’t sound nearly as satisfying as screaming at his billing department. Now that I know all of this, at my checkup next year, I’m going to ask for a whole lot of stickers. Joel Stein, a former columnist for Time, writes a Substack called “The End of My Career” and is the author of “In Defense of Elitism.” and think things through. Kids who believe that they can buy someone to help them with hard things aren’t going to develop the resil- ience and work ethic that they need for true accom- plishment beyond school. They may be able to glide through a certain kind of rich person’s existence, but they are not equipped for innova-
