METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: By TUNKU VARADARAJAN WAR GAMES Taiwanese military personnel during a training exercise in July 20...
ID: 83

CONTENT:
By TUNKU VARADARAJAN WAR GAMES Taiwanese military personnel during a training exercise in July 2022. The Pacifie’s Islan AIWAN THIS month was in the headlines, an event remarkable for its infrequency. In truth, there should never be a moment when we don’t fixate on this disputed island—independent in every way save for the absence of formal, de jure sovereignty—that’s separated by no more than a narrow strait from a snarling, revanchist China. Speaking at the Honolulu Defense Forum on Feb. 13, Adm. Samuel Paparo, the head of the U.S. Indo-Pacific Command, sounded a chilling warn- ing. China’s “aggressive maneuvers around Tai- wan right now,” he said, “are not exercises as they call them, they are rehearsals. They are rehearsals for the forced unification of Taiwan to the mainland.” In “Why Taiwan Matters” Kerry Brown, a for- mer British diplomat who is currently a profes- sor of Chinese Studies at King’s College, London, tells us that this proudly renegade island is “at the heart of arguably the greatest geopolitical challenge of the twenty-first century.” The conquest of democratic Taiwan by Com- munist China would not only snuff out the free- dom of 23.4 million people, it would “wreak havoc,” as Mr. Brown puts it, on the global economy in a manner that exceeds the depreda- tions of the Covid-19 pandemic or the 2008-09 financial crisis. The Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, for instance, produces more than 90% of the semiconductors that reside in the hearts of our computers. If TSMC’s plants were to be shut down or destroyed or sabotaged in war, much of the world would grind to a halt. (Let’s also shudder at the possi- bility of the plants falling, intact and function- ing, into Xi Jinping’s hands.) And then, of course, there’s the small matter of a possible World War III, with the U.S. and its allies coming to Taiwan’s defense and China responding with all the self-righteous nationalist fury it can muster. Until the 1990s, writes Mr. Brown, China could “express its claims for reunification forcefully but had limited capacity to do anything about them.” The country was neither rich nor mighty. Today, it is both. The world’s second-largest economy with the world’s second-largest military expendi- ture—after its much-resented superior, the US., in both cases—China can now “think about doing things that were never an option in the past.” The question for many, says Mr. Brown, “is no longer whether China can actually do anything, but when it will act.” If the Chinese Communist Party elites have a psycho-political obsession, it is to achieve “com- plete national unification.” Hong Kong and Macau returned to Chinese sovereignty in the late 20th century; Tibet and East Turkestan (Xin- jiang in the jargon of Beijing) were swallowed by China several decades earlier. Taiwan is now the final piece of the puzzle that Mr. Xi craves in order to bring about, in his words, “the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation.” In “The Boiling Moat: Urgent Steps to Defend Taiwan,” Matt Pottinger has edited a collection of 13 essays that offer “practical and feasible steps” the free world should take “to deter Xi from triggering a catastrophic war.” Mr. Xi has reiterated his adamant unification- ist goal on numerous occasions, restating the mainland policy toward Taiwan that has remained unchanged since Chiang Kai-shek and his Nationalists set up an alternative Chinese government on the island after their defeat by the Communists in 1949. Yet in Mr. Xi’s meeting with President Biden in November 2023, the Chinese “commander-in- chief-of-everything”—as he is accurately described in one of the essays in “The Boiling Moat”—demanded not only that the U.S. stop arming Taiwan but also that it “support China’s peaceful reunification.” In his introductory essay, Mr. Pottinger writes that this was the first time Mr. Xi called for American collusion or participation in reunifying China and Taiwan. It’s “a fundamental revision” of Beijing’s longstanding but relatively limited demand that the U.S. “refrain from supporting Taiwan independence.” In other words, says Mr. Pottinger, Mr. Xi’s “moves aren’t aimed at main- taining the decades-old status quo in the Taiwan Strait but at ending it.” Mr. Pottinger, a reporter in China for this newspaper in the early 2000s, was a U.S. dep- uty national-security advisor from 2019 to 2021 and the architect of U.S. China policy in the latter stages of Donald Trump’s first presi- dential term. He has assembled a lively and erudite cast of strategic experts, ranging from, among others, a professor at the U.S. Naval War College to a former U.S. Navy nuclear- trained officer, a Japanese admiral, a decorated veteran of the Israel Defense Forces, a former U.S. Marine who helped set up Japan’s amphibious force, and a former secretary- general of NATO. The future of Taiwan’s political control is of great importance to multiple world powers, and to the Taiwanese themselves. Convinced that the time for effective eco- nomic and diplomatic methods may have passed, Mr. Pottinger and his contributors focus wisely— and unabashedly—on the military dimension of the Taiwan challenge. The only way to prevent war, they argue, is to deter it militarily. Deter- rence was what kept the Cold War cold. The U.S. and its allies must therefore waste no time in expanding their capacity for the making and acquisition of munitions. One of the book’s contributors, Ivan Kanapa- thy—a former instructor at the U.S. Navy Fighter Weapons School (known as Top Gun), who served as the deputy senior director for Asian affairs at the National Security Council—gets impressively granular. He provides a shopping list of exactly what munitions Taiwan should acquire. These include “4000+ man-portable air defense missiles,” “200+ mobile short-range air defense vehicles” and—wait for this—“enough rifles, pistols, and ammunition such that each member of the military, reserves, and civil defense force has emergency access to a per- sonal weapon.” d Crucible China is a hegemonic one-man show. And so Mr. Pottinger’s book “singles out Xi Jinping per- sonally as the object of deterrence,” the Chinese strongman having consolidated more power in his domestically unassailable person than any leader since the colossus Mao Zedong. “No other decision maker counts nearly so much as Xi,” writes Mr. Pottinger, “when it comes to ques- tions of war and peace.” “The Boiling Moat”—a phrase taken from the Book of Han, an early history of China—is a com- pelling “how to” compendium that tells us how to sink China’s navy (a whole chapter reveals the best way); to counter a Chinese quarantine or blockade of Taiwan; to ensure that Japan embraces publicly “the near inevitability that it would be compelled to fight in the event China attacks Taiwan”; and to make the best use of Australia as a stalwart ally of freedom. One com- pelling chapter argues that Taiwan must “adopt a new military culture” akin to that of Israel, turning itself into a warrior-state—or “a porcu- pine, making itself unappetizing or, if that fails, fatal to a hungry predator.” Mr. Brown’s “Why Taiwan Matters” has a dif- ferent focus. It is, in part, a lively and accessible history of Taiwan, explaining the island’s evolu- tion from military dictatorship under Chiang Kai- shek to its current political condition as the most vigorous and healthy democracy in Asia. Credit for this is due to a succession of presidents from both the Nationalist Party, historically more con- ciliatory to China, and the Democratic Progres- sive Party (DPP), more assertive at all times of Taiwan’s separateness from China. While the DPP has flirted with sovereignty and self-determination, it has always been care- ful to stop short of provoking China with any outright declaration of independence. It is this “strategic ambiguity”’—embraced also by the U.S.—that has kept Taiwan and China from fall- ing into war. Mr. Brown urges us to persevere with the “unglamorous task” of keeping ambigu- ity alive. As he says, a strenuous defense of the stalemate “is all that we can meaningfully do. Anything else is insanity.” Mr. Varadarajan, a Journal contributor, is a fel- low at the American Enterprise Institute and at New York University Law School's Classical Lib- eral Institute. When Al Ts the Author Continued from page C7 extinction by AI is not a problem I’m particularly interested in thinking or writing about. Frankly, all these people seem kind of nuts.” What does interest him is the effect of AI on student writing. A composi- tion rendered by AI is certain to be grammatically and otherwise formally correct, lacking only in originality and an interesting point of view. Machines, Mr. Warner holds, cannot teach writ- ing. “Only humans can read. Only humans can write. Don’t let anyone tell you otherwise.” For Mr. Warner, writ- ing is an act of discovery, thinking made manifest on the page. “How do I know what I think until I see what I say?” E.M. Forster remarked. Mr. War- ner quotes Thomas Mann on the diffi- culty of writing for true writers: “A writer is a person for whom writing is more difficult than it is for other peo- ple.” Writing and thinking, in this view, might seem conterminous, but writing is also a way of expressing feeling. “Making sense of the world is the work of writing,” Mr. Warner writes. A year or so ago, I was sent an AI version of a Joseph Epstein essay. Mis- take-free though it was, flow right along though it did, there was some- thing missing at its core. If I wrote as AI had me writing, I should long ago have given up the literary life. Mr. War- ner has had a similar experience. In a chapter titled “My Digital Doppelgan- ger,” he put his own writing to the AI test, asking a model to create, in his own style, a piece on the film critics Gene Siskel and Roger Ebert. He describes feeling “like I’m reading a Stepford version of myself, that says things that are sort of how I might say them, but where the slight resem- blance is actually the creepiest part.” Mr. Warner felt the work produced by Al “schmaltzy”; I found its imitation of my own writing hollow and heartless. In any case, he adds: “But knowing the text was generated by a machine genu- inely creeped me out.” The author allows that AI may well produce writing that “puts it ahead of what most students can produce,” at least at the level of correctness, but he contends that it isn’t really writing that emerges. He goes on to claim that Al is more likely to set the true learning of writing back, that in it we have an application that “can produce ‘bulls—’ on demand.” Perhaps, though, this availability of text-on-demand “is the kick in the ass we need to rethink our approaches” to the teaching of writing. Unlike other arts (music, drawing, dance) writing is not something one is born with a propensity for, or that comes easily—a gift, if you please, of the gods. There are no great child prodigies, no Mozarts, no Raphaels, in literature. Joseph Conrad was pushing 40 when he published his first novel. One trains to become a writer, and that training is chiefly through reading great writers. Every writer is a serious reader. Writers, moreover, read differ- ently than other people. Along with reading out of general interest, for aes- thetic appreciation, or to compare one book with others in the same line, writ- ers read in the hope of discovering things they can use to put to a novel use in their own writing. To adapt a phrase: Als copy, artists steal. As kids learn how to play basketball from watching bigger kids, so do would-be writers learn how the literary game is best played from older, estab- lished writers. I learned not in the classroom but from reading how to use the dash, when the placement of a semicolon is appropriate, how to end a paragraph, and more. Mr. Warner criti- cizes Malcolm Gladwell, whose book “Outliers: The Story of Success,” set out the 10,000-Hour Rule, which holds that 10,000 hours of practice is needed to succeed at any art. “Obviously, you can’t improve at something you never Artificial intelligence can produce text that’s smooth and impressive. But is it writing? do, and we all have to practice our practices,” Mr. Warmer writes, “but the amount of time spent by itself is not a meaningful gauge of how one advances their abilities.” Careful readers will note that in that previous sentence the author employs the currently fashionable third-person pronoun “their,” which allows those who use it to avoid the accusation of misogyny by avoiding the use of the traditionally correct “his” or the slightly awkward “his or her.” He also misuses “disinterest” to mean “lacking interest” and adverts to the phrase “tasked with’ along with other infelici- tous words and phrases such as “writ- ing-wise,” “impactful,” “in terms of” and “incentivized.” Throughout the book, he splits more infinitives than Abraham Lincoln split logs. Is a writer of books on writing permitted such lit- erary slovenliness? Are there many people left on the planet who still notice? I hope so; in an age of instantly produced language, the time writers take to perfect their prose seems all the more important. None of the defects in “More Than Words” make it less compelling. John Warner notes that even more technol- ogy is on the way that aims to make student writing easier, and he acknowl- edges that his own view of this technol- ogy is that of an unapologetic Luddite, a fraternity against the advance of machinery in which J, for one, join him. In learning how to write well, nothing can replace thoughtful reading, careful practice and an interesting point of view. Anything else is artificial all right, but a good deal less than intelligent. Mr. Epstein is the author, most recently, of “Never Say You’ve Had a Lucky Life.” C10 | Saturday/Sunday, February 22 - 23, 2025 KK KK THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. BOOKS “The way a crow / Shook down on me / The dust of snow / From a hemlock tree / Has given my heart / A change of mood / And saved some part / Of a day I rued? -Frost Acquainted With the Night Love and Need
