METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: By Matthew Goodman Ballantine, 448 pages, $30 NOVELISTS WOULD be hard- pressed to imagine a more ...
ID: 87

CONTENT:
By Matthew Goodman Ballantine, 448 pages, $30 NOVELISTS WOULD be hard- pressed to imagine a more incon- gruous duo working to rescue British airmen trapped in Nazi- occupied France than the 62-year- old American widow Etta Shiber and her 53-year-old English friend and Paris flatmate, Kate Bon- nefous. But as Matthew Goodman reveals in “Paris Undercover,” the duo’s true story wasn’t juicy enough for booksellers, much less Hollywood. When an embroidered version of their endeavors was rushed into print and onto the screen, it revealed details that nearly cost Bonnefous her life. At the core of this multilayered story is the friendship Shiber and Bonnefous struck up in 1926. They had met at the Paris dress shop Bonnefous owned and became close during Shiber’s subsequent visits to France. Following the sud- den death of her husband in 1936, Shiber accepted Bonnefous’s invita- tion to move in with her in Paris. Upon Hitler’s conquest of France in June 1940, Bonnefous volunteered as an ambulance driver ostensibly to provide care packages. In reality, she facilitated British soldiers’ escape back to hair “concealed them more effec- tively than any wigs or false noses, providing almost a cloak of invisibility.” Even so, by the end of the year, the Gestapo had arrested them both. Consigned to solitary confinement while awaiting trial, Bonnefous was tortured daily for three weeks. Found guilty, she was condemned to death—a sentence that was later commuted to life in prison. By contrast, Shiber’s three-year sentence was cut short in May 1942 through a prisoner exchange with America. Flattered by the press her ordeal attracted, Shiber signed over the rights to her story to a literary-film agent whose ghost- writers exaggerated her exploits beyond recognition—while also carelessly leaving in obvious clues to the identity of Bonnefous. The resulting “memoir” and film enraged the Gestapo, who sav- agely punished Bonnefous for the accounts’ fabricated escapes, which they had accepted as real. She was released from prison at the end of the war and lived until the age of 79, proudly maintaining that the rescue missions she helped organize had been worth “all the suffering.” For her part, Shiber remained oblivious, until her death in 1948, of the price Bon- nefous paid for their friendship. <x Zz x= a lo} Zz <= <x Zz <= Si — lu > avn
