METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: CONSTELLATION BRANDS A The Oracle of Omaha is betting on Modelo. STZ Warren Buffett’s Berkshire 0...
ID: 56

CONTENT:
CONSTELLATION BRANDS A The Oracle of Omaha is betting on Modelo. STZ Warren Buffett’s Berkshire 0 Hathaway said it had es- AN tablished a new position in Constellation Brands, the U.S. seller of Modelo and Corona beer, worth $1.2 billion at the end of December. In a regulatory filing made public after the market closed Feb. 14, the conglomerate also dis- closed that it held its Apple shares in the fourth quarter and reduced its positions in several financial stocks. Constellation shares gained 4% Tuesday. : WMT WALMART Vv The retail giant on Thurs- day posted strong profit and revenue for the holi- 0 day quarter, including a 6.5% 20% jump in its e-com- merce business. But inves- tors were unsettled by weaker-than- expected guidance for the year ahead, casting some doubt on the strength of the consumer amid high inflation and tariff increases. Wal- mart has enjoyed a postpandemic streak that has pushed its stock price near all-time highs. Walmart shares declined 6.5% Thursday. —Francesca Fontana KEYWORDS | CHRISTOPHER MIMS Why Al Spending Isn’t Going to Slow Down Soaring demand for reasoning models will consume electricity, microchips and data-center real estate for the foreseeable future Despite a brief pe- riod of investor doubt, money is pouring into artifi- cial intelligence from big tech companies, Nose a? S national govern- ments and venture capitalists at unprecedented levels. To under- stand why, it helps to appreciate the way that AI itself is changing. The technology is shifting away from conventional large language models and toward reasoning models and AI agents. Training conventional large language mod- els—the kind you’ve encountered in free versions of most AI chat- bots—requires vast amounts of power and computing time. But we're rapidly figuring out ways to reduce the amount of resources they need to run when a human calls on them. Reasoning models, which are based on large language models, are different in that their actual operation consumes many times more resources, in terms of both microchips and electricity. Since OpenAlI previewed its first reasoning model, called ol, in September, AI companies have been rushing to release systems that can compete. This includes DeepSeek’s R1, which rocked the AI world and the valuations of many tech and power companies at the beginning of this year, and Elon Musk’s xAI, which just de- buted its Grok 3 reasoning model. DeepSeek caused a panic of sorts because it showed that an AI model could be trained for a fraction of the cost of other mod- els, something that could cut de- mand for data centers and expen- sive advanced chips. But what DeepSeek really did was push the Al industry even harder toward resource-intensive reasoning mod- els, meaning that computing in- frastructure is still very much needed. Owing to their enhanced capa- bilities, these reasoning systems will likely soon become the de- fault way that people use AI for many tasks. OpenAI Chief Execu- tive Sam Altman said the next major upgrade to his company’s AI model will include advanced reasoning capabilities. Why do reasoning models—and the products they’re a part of, like “deep research” tools and AI agents—need so much more power? The answer lies in how they work. ‘Every keystroke in your keyboard will be transcribed or manipulated by at least one AI? AI reasoning models can easily use more than 100 times as much computing resources as conven- tional large language models, Nvidia’s vice president of product management for AI, Kari Briski, wrote in a recent blog post. That multiplier comes from reasoning models spending minutes or even hours talking to themselves—not all of which the user sees—in a long “chain of thought.” The amount of computing resources used by a model is proportional to the number of words generated, so a reasoning model that generates 100 times as many words to an- swer a question will use that much more electricity and other resources. Things can get even more re- source-intensive when reasoning models access the internet, as Google’s, OpenAl’s and Perplexity’s “deep research” models do. These demands for computing power are just the beginning. As a reflection of that, Google, Micro- soft and Meta Platforms are col- lectively planning to spend at least $215 billion on capital expendi- tures—much of that for AI data centers—in 2025. That would rep- resent a 45% increase in their cap- ital spending from last year. To demonstrate the projections of future AI demand, we can lay out a simple equation. The first value in our equation is the amount of computing re- sources needed to process a single token of information in an AI like Capital spending, quarterly $70 billion 60 50 2020 21 22 Baseten, which provides AI com- puting resources to other compa- nies, says that this swing toward inference is already well under way. His customers consist of tech companies that use AI in their apps and services, such as De- script, which allows content cre- ators to edit audio and video di- rectly from a transcript of a recording, and PicnicHealth, a startup that processes medical re- cords. Baseten’s customers are finding that they need more AI processing power as demand for their own products rapidly grows, says Srivastava. “For one customer, we brought their costs down probably 60% six months ago, and within three months, they were already con- suming at a higher level than they were consuming initially,” he adds. All of the big AI labs at compa- nies like OpenAI, Google and Meta are still trying to best one another by training ever-more-capable AI l Meta U Alphabet Microsoft Amazon '23 24 Note: Data are for purchases of property and equipment. This chart shows data for each calendar quarter. Microsoft's fiscal year ends June 30. Source: the companies the one that powers ChatGPT. In January, it appeared that the cost per token—in both computing power and dollars—would crash in the wake of the release of Deep- Seek R1, the Chinese AI model. DeepSeek, with its accompanying paper, showed it was possible to both train and deliver AI in a way that was radically more efficient than the approaches previously disclosed by American AI labs. On its face, this would seem to indicate that Al’s future demand for computing power would be some fraction of its current amount—say, a tenth, or even less. But the increase in demand from reasoning models when they are answering queries could more than make up for that. To look at in the most simplistic way, if new, more efficient AI models based on the insights that went into DeepSeek slash demand for computing power for AI by a tenth, but reasoning models be- come the standard and increase demand for those models by a fac- tor of 100, that’s still a 10-fold in- crease in future demand for power for AI. This is just the starting point. As businesses are discovering that the new AI models are more capa- ble, they’re calling on them more and more often. This is shifting demand for computing capacity from training models toward using them—or what’s called “inference” in the AI industry. Tuhin Srivastava, CEO of models. Whatever the cost, the prize is capturing as much of the still-nascent market for AI as pos- sible. “T think it’s entirely possible that frontier labs need to keep pumping in staggering amounts of money in order to push the fron- tier forward,” says Chris Taylor, CEO of Fractional AI, a San Fran- cisco-based startup that helps other software companies build and integrate custom Als. His company, like Baseten and many others in the blossoming AI eco- system, relies on those cutting- edge models to deliver results for its own customers. Over the next couple of years, new innovations and more AI-spe- cific microchips could mean sys- tems that deliver AI to end cus- tomers become 1,000 times more efficient than they are today, says Tomasz Tunguz, a venture capital- ist and founder of Theory Ven- tures. The bet that investors and big tech companies are making, he adds, is that over the course of the coming decade, the amount of de- mand for AI models could go up by a factor of a trillion or more, thanks to reasoning models and rapid adoption. “Every keystroke in your key- board, or every phoneme you utter into a microphone, will be tran- scribed or manipulated by at least one AI,” says Tunguz. And if that’s the case, he adds, the AI market could soon be 1,000 times larger than it is today.
