METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: By Kirk MALTAIS The tariffs targeting alumi- num imports into the U.S. have buyers scrambling to ...
ID: 60

CONTENT:
By Kirk MALTAIS The tariffs targeting alumi- num imports into the U.S. have buyers scrambling to procure the metal before levies are ex- pected to kick in and make im- ports more expensive. Aluminum buyers—which in- clude manufacturers of items like autos, beverage cans and home appliances—are attempt- ing to stock up on primary alu- minum before the Trump ad- ministration raises the 10% tariff placed on the metal to 25% next month. The US. is a deficit market for aluminum, meaning that de- mand for the metal is higher than the amount that’s pro- duced by domestic smelters. Ac- cording to data from the Alumi- num Association, imported aluminum accounts for nearly 60% of the aluminum used in the U.S., while the amount of aluminum produced in the U.S. continues to drop. “The U.S. is heavily depen- dent on imports of primary alu- minum to satisfy its demand Aluminum prices, past six months $2,800 a metric ton 2,700 2,600 2,500 2,400 2,300 Sept. 2024 25 Note: Three-month forward contract on the London Metal Exchange Source: FactSet needs from key sectors,” said Karen Norton, principal analyst of metals and mining for S&P Global Commodity Insights. U.S. aluminum smelters pro- duced just below 700,000 met- ric tons of aluminum in 2024, Norton said. That’s down nearly 14% from the previous year— and it’s enough to cover about 15% of American demand for the metal. But for aluminum, it’s not the underlying price for the metal that’s reflecting increased anxiety around its availability, but instead the surcharge buy- Aluminum buyers include manufacturers of beverage cans. ers have to pay to have alumi- num transported to their facili- ties from the ports that they arrive from. This surcharge—known as the “Midwest premium”—has quickly risen in the wake of the tariff announcement, with Platts, a part of S&P Global Commodity Insights, pegging its assessment at 38.55 cents a pound earlier this past week. The firm’s assessment has climbed 65% from the start of the year, and it has surged nearly 30% since the White House confirmed new metal tar- iffs. By comparison, base prices for aluminum trading on the London Metal Exchange have inched up since the start of the year, with the three-month for- ward contract climbing 5.3% since Jan. 1, to $2,688 per met- ric ton Friday. The Midwest premium is pe- riodically a topic of controversy within the U.S. aluminum indus- try, but in essence it is a deliv- ery fee for aluminum shipped within the U.S. “It’s like you’re ordering a McDonald’s burger from Uber,” explains Andy Far- ida, a research analyst with VAN/GETTY IMAGES Fastmarkets, who also performs an assessment of the premium. “The burger is like the alumi- num, and the Midwest premium is like the delivery fee that you pay Uber.” The Midwest premium is a basic premium attached to sales of aluminum across the U.S. Other regions of the world have their own premiums. Aluminum buyers can pass a lot of this additional cost to consumers, said Matthew Abrams, a senior analyst with CRU Group. While a higher tar- iff is expected to limit the 5 amount of competing extrusions 2 or can sheet that arrive on U.S. = shores, higher consumer prices may then pressure demand, leaving downstream users like extruders and rolling mills stuck in an unprofitable situation. Canada supplies roughly 60% to 70% of the imports that come into the U.S. market. Canadian suppliers like Rio Tinto produce high quality aluminum that is typically sold to stateside buy- ers. To get aluminum of a similar quality, buyers may need to buy from Rio Tinto’s Australian smelters, and premiums will need to be higher to make the U.S. a worthwhile place for those Australian smelters to sell to, Farida said. CoStar Bids $1.68 Billion for Australia Property Advertiser
