METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: By DANIEL YERGIN OU f—ing Ameri- ‘4 cans. Who are you to tell us, the rest of the world, that we'...
ID: 80

CONTENT:
By DANIEL YERGIN OU f—ing Ameri- ‘4 cans. Who are you to tell us, the rest of the world, that we're not going to deal with Iranians?” So exploded a British banker when warned that the U.S. would be applying sanctions to international banks doing business with Iran. As it turned out, that’s exactly what the Americans did—hit- ting the defiant banker’s own institu- tion, among others, with hundreds of millions of dollars in fines. In “Chokepoints: American Power in the Age of Economic Warfare,” Edward Fishman makes clear why this banker so badly underestimated America’s financial power. Deftly written, “Choke- points” is a compelling and dramatic narrative about the new shape of geo- politics—one in which the U.S. mobi- lizes its economic and financial pre- eminence for geopolitical objectives, especially in its clashes with China, Iran and Russia. It’s the story of a world economy that has moved from confident globalization to increasing fragmentation and in which economic warfare has become “a baseline feature of our world.” Mr. Fishman, who has held positions in the State, Defense and Treasury departments and now teaches at Columbia University’s School of Inter- national and Public Affairs, has written an engrossing account of contemporary history. He provides a framework for understanding the battles to come as well as the growing challenges and risks facing companies that operate in the global economy. Of course, there’s nothing new about economic warfare. Athens in the fifth century B.C. deployed its mighty navy to impose a trade embargo on the city-state of Megara. The blockade suc- ceeded but also backfired, helping pre- cipitate a war with Sparta that would shatter Athens’s golden age. With the establishment of the League of Nations after World War I, Woodrow Wilson prophesied that the organization’s ability to impose eco- nomic sanctions on aggressors would be “something more tremendous than war.” As it turned out, sanctions did not impede Japan’s conquest of Man- churia in 1931, Mussolini’s attack on Ethiopia in 1935 nor the advent of World War IL. Mr. Fishman argues that “what makes today’s economic wars novel is the highly interdependent world econ- omy.” He writes: “Great powers once rose and survived by controlling geo- graphic chokepoints like the Bosphorus. American power in the globalized econ- omy relies on chokepoints of a different kind.” Foremost among them is the pri- macy of the dollar—in global trade, in- vestments and financial transactions— and the role in the global economy played by the major U.S. banks. So Teaching Writing In an AI Age More Than Words
