METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: AMIT ELKAYAM FOR WSJ Is Set to The families of those hos- tages, represented by the Hos- tages an...
ID: 39

CONTENT:
AMIT ELKAYAM FOR WSJ Is Set to The families of those hos- tages, represented by the Hos- tages and Missing Families Fo- rum, became a powerful voice in Israeli society, pressuring Netanyahu to agree to a deal with Hamas. The Mengistu family, by contrast, spent years trying to raise awareness of his plight. “Tt felt like the problem of the Ethiopians,” said Rivka Sally Bayna, an Ethiopian-born Israeli who attended protests to free Mengistu over the years. “It didn’t really interest anyone.” Sally Bayna said hostage families today apologize for failing to take part in the pro- tests to free Mengistu. Since Oct. 7, 2023, the Hostages and Missing Families Forum has lobbied for the return of Mengistu and Sayed. Israel’s government for years held indirect talks with Hamas about releasing Meng- istu, Sayed and the bodies of two soldiers killed in an ear- lier conflict between Israel and Palestinian militants in Gaza, said Gershon Baskin, a former Israeli hostage negotiator, who was involved in the talks. But the Israeli government, he said, was unwilling to re- lease Palestinians prisoners serving life sentences for kill- ing Israelis—a key Hamas de- mand. Israeli officials were Be Freed under no pressure to free Mengistu and Sayed because the hostages weren’t from in- fluential communities, said Baskin, who is Middle East di- rector for the diplomacy advo- cacy group International Com- munities Organization. The fourth of 10 children, Mengistu emigrated to Israel from Ethiopia in the early 1990s at the age of 5, settling with his family in an impoverished neighborhood in the southern Israeli city of Ashkelon. The family was part of a wave of Ethiopians who emigrated to Israel over about 10 years. Many were illiterate, from rural communities, and struggled to assimilate. The community has grown to 171,000 in a country of 10 million, but remains one of the poorer parts of society. His years in captivity have shattered Mengistu’s family, which has received little gov- ernment and financial sup- port, say friends and family. “Tt’s a lot of years waiting for Avera, waiting for the govern- ment to wake up and save him,” said Michal Worke, an Israeli artist of Ethiopian descent, who began painting the Mengistu family in 2017 to raise aware- ness of his case. On Saturday, Mengistu will be met by his brother, Ilan, and sister, Alam- nesh, near the Gaza border. Xi, Putin Ramp Up Joint Military Exercises Number of China-Russia joint military exercises by type
