METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: By SUMMER SAID AND ANAT PELED Israel warned Hamas on Fri- day that it will face conse- quences if...
ID: 37

CONTENT:
By SUMMER SAID AND ANAT PELED Israel warned Hamas on Fri- day that it will face conse- quences if the militant group doesn’t hand over the body of a mother who was kidnapped with her two young sons, as Arab mediators expressed con- cerns about talks expected to begin this coming week over a permanent end to the Gaza war. The Israeli military said the bodies of the boys, Ariel and Kfir, were identified, but an- other body Israel received this past week didn’t belong to their mother, Shiri Bibas, and didn’t match any other hos- tage. Hamas said it would in- vestigate Israel’s claims. Later on Friday, Arab media- tors said Hamas had handed over to the International Com- mittee of the Red Cross another body that the militants said was that of Shiri Bibas. The Is- raeli military didn’t comment. The militant group pri- vately told mediators that it wasn’t aware that the remains inside one of the four coffins it released Thursday weren’t those of Shiri Bibas, after claiming they were, and that it was trying to resolve the is- sue, said mediators. The Bibas family was held by an armed group called the Mu- jahideen Brigades, but Israel considers Hamas responsible for the violation. The Mujahideen movement also said it would in- vestigate Israel’s claims. Israeli military spokesman Daniel Hagari also said Friday that Ariel and Kfir were brutally killed by hand, dismissing a Hamas claim in 2023 that the Bibas hostages were killed by an Israeli airstrike. Hagari noted that this conclusion was backed by intelligence that Israel shared with its international partners. “The terrorists did not shoot the two young boys—they killed them with their bare hands. Afterwards, they com- mitted horrific acts to cover up these atrocities,” Hagari said, without elaborating. Both sides have indicated that they will go ahead with Saturday’s exchange in which six living Israeli hostages are to be traded for hundreds of Pal- estinian prisoners being held in Israeli prisons under the cease- fire that began on Jan. 19. Hamas on Friday handed over a list of male hostages it planned to release a day later. Among them are Avera Meng- istu, 39 years old, an Ethio- pian-born Israeli, and Hisham Al-Sayed, 37, a Bedouin-Israeli, both of whom have spent about a decade in captivity. The other four hostages set to be released are Eliya Cohen, 27, Tal Shoham, 40, Omer Shem Tov, 22, and Omer Wenkert, 23, all of whom were kidnapped on Oct. 7, 2023. Israel said it had informed the families. Israel and Hamas agreed to the multiphase deal last month, with the first stage consisting People gathered in Tel Aviv as the bodies of deceased Israeli hostages were released. of six weeks during which Hamas would release 33 Israeli hostages, including eight dead bodies, in exchange for hun- dreds of Palestinian prisoners. Of the 25 living Israeli hostages Hamas agreed to release, 19 have been freed so far. The first phase ends this coming week. Negotiations for the second phase were supposed to start more than two weeks ago but haven’t begun yet. The kidnapping of Shiri, 33, Ariel, 4, and nine-month-old Kfir during the Hamas-led at- tacks on Oct. 7, 2023, became a searing symbol of that day’s brutality—and of the country’s desperate hopes for the safety of its abducted citizens. The Israeli military said that a forensic examination showed that the body of the woman that Hamas said was the boys’ mother was an “anonymous unidentified body.” Ofri Bibas Levy, the children’s aunt, said the family was heart- broken. “For Ariel and Kfir’s sake and for [husband] Yarden’s sake, we are not seeking re- venge right now,” she said. Bibas Levy said the family hasn’t received an apology from Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, adding that the children were aban- doned by Israel on Oct. 7, then again in captivity. Netanyahu said Israel would exact a price from Hamas for the wrong-body violation. The body of the fourth de- ceased hostage, Oded Lifshitz, who was 83 when taken, was also identified by Israel and his family was informed. Man Held for More Than 5,800 Days
