METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: By JAMES FANELLI AND CORINNE RAMEY A federal judge said Friday he will hold off ruling on the Jus...
ID: 33

CONTENT:
By JAMES FANELLI AND CORINNE RAMEY A federal judge said Friday he will hold off ruling on the Justice Department’s request to drop its prosecution of New York City Mayor Eric Adams in order to allow an outside attorney to make a case against granting the bid. U.S. District Judge Dale Ho appointed Paul Clement, a for- mer solicitor general, to pro- vide legal arguments opposing the request, which sent shock waves through both the Jus- tice Department and City Hall. Ho held a hearing Wednes- day during which he ques- tioned the Justice Depart- ment’s acting No. 2 and a lawyer for Adams about the request to drop the bribery charges. In his order Friday, Ho said appointing Clement would be helpful in providing an opposing view, since both the Justice Department and Adams had advocated to end the case. “That is particularly so in light of the public importance of this case, which calls for careful deliberation,” Ho said. Ho said that, if necessary, he would hold arguments on the matter on March 14, indi- cating that the uncertainty around the Adams case is likely to drag on for at least several weeks. The Justice Department had previously pushed back on appointing an outside party to argue against the Adams mo- tion. When Ho asked Wednes- day if hearing from an oppos- ing voice in the matter might prove helpful, Emil Bove, the acting U.S. deputy attorney general, responded it wouldn’t. “T don’t think this is a case where that will meaningfully aid the record that your Honor created,” he said. The DOJ moved to dismiss the indictment against New York City Mayor Eric Adams last week. Clement, who served as so- licitor general in President George W. Bush’s administra- tion, didn’t respond to a re- quest for comment. He has been tapped in the past for high-profile cases advancing conservative causes, including arguments in favor of gun rights and against federal rec- ognition of same-sex marriage. Several federal prosecutors have resigned in protest of the directive to end the Adams case, including the former act- ing U.S. attorney in Manhat- tan, amid accusations that it was a quid pro quo agreement to help obtain the Democratic mayor’s cooperation on immi- gration enforcement that President Trump has priori- tized. Both Adams and the Justice Department deny the deal was improper. The Manhattan U.S. attor- ney’s office charged Adams in September with funneling ille- gal political contributions from Turkish nationals into his campaign war chest while accepting travel perks in ex- change for official acts. He has denied any wrongdoing and claimed he was targeted after criticizing the Biden adminis- tration over its handling of the migrant crisis. The Justice Department moved to dismiss the Adams indictment last week, saying the case inter- ams, filed his own letter to Ho on Friday, directing the judge to comments that Attorney General Pam Bondi made at a conference earlier this week in which she called the case “in- credibly weak.” “The Department of Justice has realized its error and now seeks to correct fered with his the prior Ad- ministration’s ability to run A the city and aid Unce rtainty mistake,” Spiro the federal gov. around the case wrote. us ernment incar- ._ |. ‘ormer U.S. rying out IS likely to drag attorneys and a rump Policy onforatleast 200d-sovern- priorities, in- ment advocacy cluding crack- ing down on il- legal immigration and violent crime. At Wednesday’s hearing, Bove said prosecuting the mayor raised at a minimum “the appearance of impropri- ety” due to its proximity to the mayoral election. Adams is seeking a second term and faces a primary in June. Alex Spiro, a lawyer for Ad- several weeks. group have filed motions with the court outlining con- cerns that the Justice Depart- ment’s move could leave Ad- ams beholden to Trump. The Justice Department is seeking to dismiss the case against Adams without prejudice, meaning it could bring back the charges at a later date. “A dismissal ‘without preju- dice’ is simply a sword of MICHAEL M. S. TIAGO/GETTY IMAGES Damocles hanging over Ad- ams, permitting the indict- ment to be re-filed at DOJ’s discretion, to ensure Mr. Ad- ams follows the administra- tion’s marching orders,” the group Common Cause said in a filing. The judge said at Wednes- day’s hearing that the request to dismiss the case presented an unusual situation but ac- knowledged he had limited au- thority to deny it. In his order Friday, Ho echoed earlier statements he made that he needed to rule quickly. The mayor’s political foes and some of his allies have also accused him of being compromised, leaving him fighting for his political sur- vival. Adams has faced calls to resign from members of his own party, while working to keep his administration from collapsing. Four of his deputy mayors said Monday that they were quitting. New York Gov. Kathy Hochul had met with top Dem- ocratic leaders earlier this week to discuss the possibility of removing him from office. Ultimately, she decided to place checks on his adminis- tration, including pursuing legislation to create a special inspector general who over- sees New York City affairs. The appointment of an out- side lawyer is unusual. One re- cent instance involved a crimi- nal case against Michael Flynn, Trump’s former na- tional security adviser, who pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI but later moved to with- draw his plea. The Justice De- partment sought to drop the case, and the presiding judge appointed a retired federal judge, John Gleeson, to argue against the request. The Justice Department maintained it had the author- ity to drop the charges, but Gleeson found “clear evidence of a gross abuse of prosecuto- rial power.” Trump later par- doned Flynn, eliminating the need for the presiding judge to rule on the Justice Depart- ment’s motion. Acting Director Of ICE Reassigned
