METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: By CorINNE RAMEY A lawyer for accused Unit- edHealth executive killer Luigi Mangione on Friday pr...
ID: 25

CONTENT:
By CorINNE RAMEY A lawyer for accused Unit- edHealth executive killer Luigi Mangione on Friday protested what she said was unfair treatment as her client battles three sets of criminal charges. “His right to a fair trial is continuously being impacted,” defense attorney Karen Fried- man Agnifilo said in state court in Manhattan. She said Mangione’s defense team hadn’t received some evidence, and argued that other evi- dence may have been inappro- priately seized by authorities. State prosecutors have charged Mangione, 26, with murder for the killing of Unit- edHealthcare Chief Executive Brian Thompson. This past December, prosecutors said, Mangione waited outside a Hilton hotel in Midtown Man- hattan, where the executive was set to attend an investor meeting. When Thompson ap- peared, Mangione shot him with a 3D-printed ghost gun, they said. Investigators found shell casings with the words “deny” and “depose,” on them, and a bullet with the word “delay,” prosecutors said. Mangione pleaded not guilty to murder charges in state court. He also faces fire- arm and forgery charges in Pennsylvania, and _ federal murder and stalking offenses in New York. Friedman Agnifilo told the judge she didn’t have ade- quate access to Mangione, who is being held in a federal jail in Brooklyn. She also asked the judge to hold off on typical procedural steps that lead up to trial be- cause, she said, federal au- thorities were still deciding whether to seek the death penalty. The judge declined to do so, and set due dates for le- gal briefs this spring. He didn’t schedule a trial date. A spokesman for the U.S. attorney’s office in Manhat- tan, which brought the federal charges, declined to comment. DOJ Probes Healthcare Insurer Continued from Page One value. The news dragged on rivals, too, with No. 2 Medi- care Advantage insurer Hu- mana down more than 5% for the day. The Medicare billing inves- tigation adds to the scrutiny on UnitedHealth, the $400 billion company that owns the largest U.S. health insurer and a sprawling network of other health-industry assets including its doctor practices, a large pharmacy-benefit manager and data and tech- nology operations. The civil investigation, some of the people said, is separate from a longer-run- ning Justice Department anti- trust probe that the Journal reported last February. The DOJ also has sued to block UnitedHealth’s $3.3 billion planned acquisition of home- health company Amedisys on antitrust grounds. A spokesman for the Jus- tice Department declined to comment. A spokeswoman for the Department of Health and Human Services’ Office of In- spector General, which is also involved in the civil fraud probe, declined to comment. UnitedHealth declined to comment Thursday. After publication of this article, the company published a re- sponse on its website saying it wasn’t aware of the Justice Department’s actions. The re- sponse alleged the Journal’s reporting amounted to a yearlong campaign against Medicare Advantage and said any “suggestion that our practices are fraudulent is outrageous and false.” A spokeswoman for the Journal _ said: Last summer, the Journal also reported that United- Health added diagnoses to patients’ records for condi- tions that no doctor treated, which triggered an extra $8.7 billion in federal payments in 2021. The untreated diagno- ses stemmed from sources in- cluding in-home visits by nurses working for the com- pany’s HouseCalls unit. Each visit by the UnitedHealth-em- ployed nurses was worth an average of $2,735 in addi- tional federal payments, a Journal analy- “We stand by our reporting.” In December, UnitedHealth sis of Medicare data spanning 2019 to 2021 ported dat ke PeCOrded foun month porte at its . ast month, analysis of bil- diag noses that Justice Depart- Hons of Med: triggered extra ent [awers showed that pa- payments. fices of the U.S. tients examined Attorney for by United- Minnesota and Health-em- the Washing- ployed doctors had huge in- creases in lucrative diagnoses after joining the company’s Medicare Advantage plans. Doctors said UnitedHealth, based in the Minneapolis area, trained them to docu- ment revenue-generating di- agnoses, including some they felt were obscure or irrele- vant. The company also used software to suggest condi- tions and paid bonuses for considering the suggestions, among other tactics, accord- ing to the doctors. ton, D.C.-based Civil Division contacted at least three doc- tors and a nurse practitioner who were named in the Jour- nal’s story on UnitedHealth- owned clinics. One of the people was told the health department’s Office of In- spector General was involved as well. Three said they were ques- tioned about specific diagno- ses UnitedHealth promoted for employees to use with pa- tients, incentive arrange- ments and pressure to add the diagnoses. At least two provided documents, includ- ing a contract with a United- Health unit, to the Justice Department. Valerie O’Meara, a nurse practitioner who worked for UnitedHealth in Washington state, said she was inter- viewed on Jan. 31 by Justice Department attorneys who were interested in the com- pany software that suggested diagnoses and the role of a UnitedHealth manager who she said urged her to make new diagnoses beyond what doctors had treated. The attorneys zeroed in on certain diagnoses the com- pany often suggested, such as an obscure hormonal condi- tion called secondary hyper- aldosteronism, she said. The Journal’s analysis found the condition was rarely diag- nosed by Medicare doctors not working for UnitedHealth. O’Meara said the attorneys focused on her account of how she was told she could add the hyperaldosteronism diagnosis to patients’ records without a lab test. More broadly, she said, “They were looking at, ‘Is this abuse?’ ” UnitedHealth has said its practices help detect diseases earlier, saving money for the health system. The company says Medicare Advantage plans generate better health outcomes and reduce costs. In a news release pub- lished on its website on Dec. 30, UnitedHealth said the Journal’s articles “rely on of- ten incomplete and inaccu- rate data to conduct flawed studies through a murky gov- ernment ‘agreement.’ ” The Journal’s analyses used data UnitedHealth and other Medicare Advantage in- surers themselves submitted to the federal government for payment purposes. Reporters accessed the data under a re- search agreement with the agency overseeing Medicare. UnitedHealth has faced in- vestigations of its diagnosis- documenting practices be- fore, and its Medicare payments have been exam- ined in health department in- spector general reports. The Justice Department took over an earlier lawsuit by a former UnitedHealth employee alleg- ing the company failed to re- tract inaccurate diagnoses added to patients’ records. UnitedHealth has disputed the allegations against it in that continuing case. CORRECTIONS €3 AMPLIFICATIONS Readers can alert The Wall Street Journal to any errors in news articles by emailing wsjcontact@wsj.com or by calling 888-410-2667.
