METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: By Rosie Whitehouse Union Square, 256 pages, $27.99 WHY DID A stranger “stand up to evil” to save...
ID: 88

CONTENT:
By Rosie Whitehouse Union Square, 256 pages, $27.99 WHY DID A stranger “stand up to evil” to save her? The Holo- caust survivor Huguette Miller began pondering that question in the winter of 1943 as a 15-year- old German-Jewish refugee in Nazi-occupied France. While she and her sister, Marion, were attempting to flee, Huguette slipped on the ice and injured her leg so severely that the girls were forced to stay in the small Alpine village of Val d’Isére. Because the Gestapo monitored hospitals for Jews and Resistance members, the sisters turned to the town physician, Frédéric Pétri, for help. Correctly sensing from the sisters’ fear that they were Jews, he offered to care for Huguette in secret in his home for the six months it would take her to heal and walk again. In 2019, Huguette began to disclose the details of her sur- vival in Nazi France to her late sister’s daughter-in-law, the journalist Rosie Whitehouse, who soon made it her mission to uncover the secrets about the sisters’ precarious existence on the run from the Gestapo. The So, too, had Pétri. Tracking down Pétri’s daughter, Ms. Whitehouse further discovered that the doc- tor had grown up in a French family in Alsace-Lorraine before World War I, while the region was under German rule. Until France regained control of the area in 1919, the French language had been banned by Germany, creating lasting resentment among loyal French speakers, like Pétri’s family. Growing up this way, Ms. Whitehouse suggests, Pétri “had learned how it felt when there was no acceptance that people are different.” Ms. Whitehouse also learned of Pétri’s rescue in 1944 of a Brit- ish soldier who had nearly frozen to death in a snowdrift. With abundant evidence of Pétri’s self- lessness in hand, Ms. Whitehouse spearheaded a successful cam- paign to have Israel’s Holocaust memorial Yad Vashem name him Righteous Among Nations, a title given to non-Jews who risk their lives to save Jews. The recogni- tion is uplifting, but for Ms. Whitehouse and her readers, the shadows of France’s Nazi occupa- tion and the Holocaust remain. Ms. Cole is the author of the memoir “After Great Pain: A New Life Emerges.” TOP: PICTORIAL PRESS LTD/ALAMY; INSET: HISTORICAL/GETTY IMAGES C12 | Saturday/Sunday, February 22 - 238, 2025 KK KK THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. BOOKS “The world breaks every one and afterward many are strong at the broken places. But those that will not break it kills’ -ERNesT HEMINGWAY VETERAN Ernest Hemingway with his son Patrick in 1928. Below, Hemingway in 1918. The Stories Papa ‘Told Ernest Hemingway: A Farewell to Arms & Other Writings 1927-1932 Edited by Robert W. Trogdon Library of America, 1,037 pages, $45
