METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: By MOL y BALL AND OLIVIA BEAVERS It was a few days before the Super Bowl, and House Speaker Mike ...
ID: 24

CONTENT:
By MOL y BALL AND OLIVIA BEAVERS It was a few days before the Super Bowl, and House Speaker Mike Johnson was, as usual, desperate to prove he wasn’t letting Donald Trump down. President Trump, he said, kept pressing him to hitch a ride on Air Force One to the big game in Johnson’s home state. “He asked me for the third time last night,” the 53- year-old Louisianian said with a half-rueful smile, perched on an ivory brocade settee in his ornate office in the Capitol. But, as he kept telling the president, New Orleans is a five-hour drive from Johnson’s hometown of Shreveport, where he would need to pick up his family before heading to the game. So he had to de- cline the D.C.-to-New Orleans trip, which Johnson repeat- edly assured Trump wasn’t in- dicative of any lack of enthusi- asm. “I won’t be on the plane. But we have a very close rela- tionship,” Johnson said. In the year-and-a-half since the amiable Johnson stumbled into the most powerful job in Congress, he has cemented his position atop the contentious leadership ladder. But he might not have remained in his post without a last-minute Please turnto page A4 @ Republicans take heat at TOWN NalllS.....ecssesscsteesstessesees A6 BRENDAN MCDERMID/REUTERS A2 | Saturday/Sunday, February 22 - 23, 2025 KK KK THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. U.S. NEWS s Washington gears up for epic negotiations over taxes and spend- ing, another fiscal fight is unfolding in the background. This one isn’t about how much to spend, but about who controls that spending: Congress or the president? The Constitution assigns power of the purse to Con- gress. But in his early ac- tions and words, President Trump is taking more of that power for himself. Rather than propose a budget, then wait for Congress to legislate actual spending, his adminis- tration froze a swath of fed- eral grants (though it walked that back), cut other spend- ing, such as on medical re- search overhead and foreign aid, and idled entire agen- cies. Trump allies like his bud- get director, Russell Vought, have argued a president should have more discretion to spend—or not. If Congress and the courts agree, it would represent a genera- tional shift in power from the legislative to the executive branch. The president would emerge with much more free- dom to pursue policies at odds with Congress’s intent. The real issue isn’t the scale of spending; it’s whose priorities govern that spend- ing. Trump’s team wants to restore what they consider the president’s rightful say over the nation’s finances, especially the countless pro- CAPITAL ACCOUNT | By Greg Ip Constitution Tested in Spending Fight grams funded through an- nual appropriations. Appropriations bills are one chance Congress gets each year to evaluate and di- rect the executive branch, said Eloise Pasachoff, a Georgetown law professor. “That’s why appropria- tions laws are thousands of pages. It’s not just sums of money. It’s conditions, and set-asides, and carve-outs. If the president starts to say we are not bound by appro- priations laws and Congress sort of blesses it, it’s another step toward an imperial ex- ecutive which...the founders were pretty emphatic we shouldn’t have.” egislative control of the L purse can be traced to the Glorious Revolution in 17th-century England, when the king agreed to par- liamentary supremacy on ex- penditure and taxation. The American framers enshrined that principle in the U.S. Constitution, which says, “No Money shall be drawn from the Treasury, but in Consequence of Appropria- tions made by Law.” This is usually interpreted as requiring a president to spend what Congress appro- priates. Trump allies disagree. “Until the Presidency of Richard Nixon, it was over- whelmingly understood that the power of the purse re- stricted only the President’s ability to spend more than an appropriation—it was not un- derstood to prohibit the Presi- SAUL LOEB/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE/GETTY IMAGES f Russell Vought during his Januar dent from spending less than an appropriation,” Mark Paoletta co-wrote in an article last year for the Center for Renewing America, a think tank founded by Vought. Paoletta is now general coun- sel for the White House Office of Management and Budget. He cited examples before Nixon of “impoundment”— presidents refusing to spend appropriated funds—such as Thomas Jefferson impound- ing $50,000 for gunboats on the Mississippi during talks over the Louisiana Purchase. In 1974, Congress, angry at Nixon’s many impoundments, explicitly prohibited the prac- tice with the Impoundment Control Act. It included es- cape clauses: The president pei can ask Congress to rescind spending (a “rescission”) or he can defer spending to later in the fiscal year, while notifying Congress. Vought considers the Im- poundment Control Act un- constitutional. But the Su- preme Court has twice slapped down the president for deviating from legislated spending. Presidents can still influ- ence spending, such as de- ciding which drugs and pro- cedures that programs like Medicare and Medicaid will cover. And sometimes money can’t or shouldn’t be spent as prescribed; perhaps a flood prevents a bridge from being built. The controversy arises y confirmation hearing to be White House budget director. when a president defies Con- gress, such as when Barack Obama made Affordable Care Act payments to health in- surers and Trump raided Pentagon funds to build a border wall. Both episodes triggered separation-of-pow- ers court cases. Joe Biden’s cancellation of student debt was a breathtaking exercise of fiscal fiat, which the Su- preme Court ruled illegal. ather than challenge Re constitutionality of the Impoundment Con- trol Act outright, the adminis- tration for now is testing the limits of what it can do under current law. “Temporary pauses on the disbursement of federal funds are common- place,” it said last month in response to a lawsuit. District Judge Loren AliKhan wasn’t having it, ruling the adminis- tration “attempted to wrest the power of the purse away from the only branch of gov- ernment entitled to wield it.” Philip Wallach, who stud- ies the separation of powers for the American Enterprise Institute, said Trump’s in- tent is to “essentially elimi- nate various parts of the government. And pretty quickly you get into some- thing that looks like a de facto impoundment, even if they never call it that.” Democrats pressed Vought at his confirmation on whether he’d disburse funds Congress has already ap- proved, such as $3.8 billion in remaining security assistance to Ukraine. Vought said, “I’m not going to get ahead of the policy process.” Sen. Gary Peters (D., Mich.) asked, “How will Con- gress be able to negotiate in good faith if the president is simply able to disregard the bipartisan laws that are passed through the appropri- ation process?” Sen. Rand Paul (R., Ky.) said this past week that the left seems angrier at Elon Musk personally rather than the waste his Department of Government Efficiency has identified. But Paul, a consti- tutional stickler, said for Musk’s savings to count, they should be “bundled into a rescission package and sent back to Congress.” Luigi Mangione, the suspect in the killing of the UnitedHealthcare CEO, attended a hearing in Manhattan on Friday. Mangione Is ‘Treated Unfairly, Lawyer Says
