METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: ALLISON ROBBERT FOR WSJ House Speaker Mike Johnson hopes to bring a budget blueprint to a vote in...
ID: 31

CONTENT:
ALLISON ROBBERT FOR WSJ House Speaker Mike Johnson hopes to bring a budget blueprint to a vote in the coming week. son’s hug-Trump strategy is paying off. Wednesday, the president urged Congress to pass the House budget, giving Johnson’s approach his impri- matur rather than the effort under way in the Senate to outflank him. Johnson hopes to bring that blueprint to a vote in the coming week. But it isn’t clear he can summon the votes to pass the budget blueprint, and details of the package have yet to be worked out. Separate talks are under way with Democrats to fund the government, which has to be done by mid- March—and with the opposi- tion party none too eager to deal on the heels of Elon Musk’s cuts across govern- ment, which they charge have usurped Congress’s authority. “Tt has been disappointing, if not completely surprising, to see him cave in to Donald Trump’s repeated efforts to demolish the meaning of con- gressional lawmaking and ap- propriations power,” Rep. Ja- mie Raskin (D., Md.) said of Johnson. “Politically and intel- lectually, he has been abso- lutely run over by Donald Trump, and plays the syco- phant and the supplicant and the enabler to an increasingly authoritarian president who is a danger to the Constitution.” Even Johnson’s closest al- lies acknowledge the task ahead. “He’s done a remark- able job, but he’s got a nearly impossible task,” Lloyd Smucker (R., Pa.) said. On a recent afternoon, a group of top House Republi- cans traipsed to the White House to work out their differ- ences on Trump’s “big, beauti- ful bill” in the presence of the one man who might be able to marshal them into agreement. They settled into the Cabinet Room, totting up numbers on whiteboards and arguing over priorities in heated tones. Yet while the White House presented the lawmakers with demands at the outset, the list didn’t include numbers, and the math it implied didn’t add up. Trump did little to settle the differences. He dropped in at the beginning to egg them on in general terms, then left them to argue over how to carry out his desires. A meet- ing Johnson had proposed to leverage the president’s influ- ence over his quarreling mem- bers ended up devolving into familiar bickering over how much to cut and where. Recounting the summit the next morning, Johnson in- sisted Trump had been help- ful. “The president set the tone,” he said. “He sort of out- lined where we are and laid out his priorities, and then he left us alone and said, ‘I’ll be in the Oval. Y’all come knock on the door when you figure it out.” The confab stretched on for more than four hours. Finally, Johnson knocked on the door of the Oval Office and told the president they were closing in on the target. But they were still short of a deal, and continued arguing for hours back at the Capitol. Some colleagues knew Johnson only distantly when, in 2023, then-Speaker Kevin McCarthy was ousted by GOP rebels. Three weeks into the resulting power vacuum, John- son put his name forward and finally got the requisite votes. Despite vowing to do busi- ness differently than his pre- decessor, Johnson immediately drew grumbling by proceeding largely as McCarthy had, in- cluding making deals with Democrats to extend govern- ment funding. Last April, Johnson succeeded in passing $61 billion in aid to Ukraine with twice as many Demo- cratic as Republican votes. Shortly thereafter, Rep. Marjo- rie Taylor Greene (R., Ga.) sought to oust Johnson using the same procedural mecha- nism used to eject McCarthy, but her gambit failed. Over the course of 2024, Johnson sought to shore up his position by sticking close to Trump. He brought in ad- visers who had worked for Trump and followed their counsel, from posting all-caps messages on social media to passing a bill banning nonciti- zens from voting, even though it is already illegal. Johnson made frequent trips to Flor- ida, accompanying Trump on the campaign trail and posting selfies with Trump from foot- ball games and UFC fights. Even after Republicans won the White House, the House and the Senate, Johnson couldn’t rest on his laurels. In December, the government- funding deal he had put to- gether blew up when Musk savaged it. Then, as Johnson prepared for the Jan. 3 vote that would extend his speak- ership, multiple Trump allies let it be known that Trump didn’t intend to spend politi- cal capital saving his hide. In the end, Trump came through. Two votes short, Johnson held the speaker vote open while his allies huddled in a backroom with two Re- publicans who had cast votes against him. Trump came on the line to get them to flip. Johnson insists he is his own man and that, as a con- stitutional lawyer, he reveres the separation of powers. He professes not to be bothered by the competing budget ac- tion in the Senate. “I think this could be the most conse- quential Congress in decades, maybe in all of history,” he said. “If I can help engineer that in some way, I will have done my duty.” Judge Lets Officials Wind Down USAID Operations
