METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: SANTA MONICA Shortly after noon, firefight- ers shared reports of home- owners unable to access a...
ID: 29

CONTENT:
SANTA MONICA Shortly after noon, firefight- ers shared reports of home- owners unable to access any exit routes. Spiller’s area re- ceived an evacuation alert soon after, and at 12:36 p.m. she slid behind the wheel of her Chevrolet Bolt. Her hus- band, Tom Weitzel, a 74-year- old retired “Entertainment To- night” producer, promised to follow promptly. As Spiller descended the canyon with her miniature Australian shepherd, Sadie, she encountered what she called a “hellscape” at the intersection of Palisades Drive and Sunset Boulevard. She caught a glimpse of blue sky in her rearview mirror and pulled a U-turn, heading back home to watch local news for updates. Even before the fires, city firefighters complained of lim- ited resources. Leaders of the United Firefighters of Los An- geles City, which represents city firefighters and paramed- ics, said at a December city fire commission meeting that their department was under- staffed and under-resourced. Freddy Escobar, president of the union’s foundation, told the group that the department responded to five times as many emergency incidents in 2023 as in 1969 but with far fewer fire stations. “If we cut one position, if we close one station, if we close one resource, the resi- dents of Los Angeles are going to pay the ultimate sacrifice, and someone will die,” Escobar said at the December meeting. Second attempt Two hours after Spiller’s first attempt, she and Weitzel tried to flee again but didn’t get far before police turned them and other motorists around. The couple decided their only option was to shelter in place. West of their home, fire- fighters battled flames scaling hillsides with bulldozers and re- quested additional air support from planes and helicopters. On Jan. 7, half of the fleet of 10 water-dousing helicop- ters were out with mainte- nance issues, the Journal has reported. Four lighter-duty helicopters responded; by midafternoon, air support had been summoned, hauling thousands of gallons of water from Ventura and as far away as Sacramento, according to a Journal review of flight data. Third attempt Soon after Spiller and her husband returned home, their cable went out, depriving them of fire updates on TV. At about 4 p.m., they piled into her Bolt and joined a police escort line out of the canyon. They later learned from a neighbor that their home was gone, along with the rest of the Upper Woodies townhome complex. “We are very grateful we got out with our life,” Spiller said. AP Sues in Bid to Get Back Into Oval Office
