METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: By NAJAT KANTOUAR Banijay Entertainment is seeking to expand its footprint in English-speaking ma...
ID: 64

CONTENT:
By NAJAT KANTOUAR Banijay Entertainment is seeking to expand its footprint in English-speaking markets, including the U.S., to drive growth. The production company be- hind brands such as Big Brother, MasterChef and Black Mirror has seen significant growth in the UK. in recent years, as a substantial amount of U.S. production has shifted to the region. “The production costs are less expensive, they speak the same language and the quality on screen is pretty similar to what is done in the U.S.,” Chief Executive Marco Bassetti said. English-speaking markets are among the most promising due to sustained growth and because they attract billions in investment from streamers in content creation and licensing, as well as from advertisers ea- ger to tap a wide audience, he said in an interview. Founded in 2008, Banijay Entertainment is a French pro- ducer and distributor of con- tent that has more than 130 production companies globally. Its competitors include BBC Studios, ITV studios, All3Media and RTL Group. The company is a subsidiary of the Dutch-listed Banijay Group, a production, distribu- tion and online sports-betting company. French media group Vivendi owns a 19.2% stake in Banijay Group. Banijay Entertainment has set its sights on expansion in the U.S., where many commis- sioners are based, Bassetti said. Commissioners—key players in the sector that include TV net- works and streamers—might fund production based on com- pany pitches, and might also broadcast productions on their channels. “Commissioners are in the U.S., so we need to pitch and secure commissions there, and then produce outside,” he said. Following the pandemic and the 2023 U.S. screenwriters’ strike, there was a significant migration to the U.K., Nether- lands, Australia and Ireland, as production moved to reduce costs. This trend raised con- cerns due to a decrease in U.S. production, he noted. “We want to increase our production in the U.S., but the production processes will most probably be done outside,” he added. While a potential U.S. listing isn’t part of the group’s plans, it is worth considering since Banijay Entertainment’s peers are there, Bassetti said. The company experienced significant growth in recent years through acquisitions. It bought Peaky Blinders’s pro- duction company Caryn Mandabach Productions in June 2024 and Endemol Shine in 2020. The primary driver behind any M&A decision is the pur- suit of valuable intellectual property, Bassetti said. “We have made strategic ac- quisitions in recent years, fo- cusing on acquiring substantial intellectual property, as it holds long-term value and rele- vance,” he said. Currently there are no plans for further M&A this year, with the company fo- cused on consolidation, Bas- setti said. Banijay is also currently testing AI tools as part of its content-production processes.
