METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: general
Title: By ABIGAIL DEUTSCH OBERT Frost’s poem “Ayla Brook” concludes with a resounding claim: “We love th...
ID: 84

CONTENT:
By ABIGAIL DEUTSCH OBERT Frost’s poem “Ayla Brook” concludes with a resounding claim: “We love the things we love for what they are.” Frost’s greatest poems capture the details of his world as it was, from the bend in the trunk of a birch tree to the plain music in the speech of his New England neighbors. This quintessen- tially American artist has secured a reputation as the apple pie of poets— warm, sweet, and just a little spicy—a bard of approachable topics such as the best route for an everyday walk through the woods. But his darker themes, such as isolation and loss, once inspired Lionel Trilling to call Frost “a terrifying poet.” In his first book, “Love and Need: The Life of Robert Frost’s Poetry,” the literary critic Adam Plun- kett interweaves discussions of the poet’s life and works to show that Frost could also be—whatever else he was—a terrifying man. Frost’s life story, seen whole, contra- dicts his popular image. The archetypal farmer-poet of New England grew up in San Francisco to a pro-Confederate father who named his son after his hero, Robert E. Lee. William Prescott Frost Jr. was a Harvard graduate and newspaper editor, and his wife, Isa- belle, was a teacher who read her chil- dren authors including Poe, Keats and Emerson. After William’s death in 1885, Isabelle moved, with 11-year-old Robert and his younger sister Jeanie, to Mas- sachusetts.At Lawrence High School, Frost encountered Cicero, Virgil, and, perhaps most importantly, Elinor Mir- iam White, his co-valedictorian, whom he later married. The couple started a family in 1896, and Frost took a turn as an unsuccessful farmer and, later,a car- ing, rumple-haired teacher. In 1912 he relocated his family for a few years to England. It was there, far from Amer- ica, that Frost began making his name as a writer. All the while, he had been develop- ing his poetic style. As far back as 1900, he had attempted something par- ticularly new with “Mowing.”He con- sidered it his first “talk-song,” Mr. Plunkett writes—“the first of his poems to realize its beauty from the tones of actual talking.” The poem begins: “There was never a sound beside the woods but one, / And that was my long scythe whispering to the ground.” Frost’s best poems speak in whispers, and, throughout this book, Mr. Plunkett listens with an attentive- ness that yields subtle and complex interpretations of talk-songs like “Birches” (1915) and “Nothing Gold Can Stay” (1923). He listens, too, for echoes of Frost’s forebears. In an especially moving section, he shows how Frost’s y & o i 5 a ir Ww E 2 x= Pal g Zz S i S ira a a °o S w a D> i Y a iu ra a w x= = = a =< = &B Zz a a ir a a a & g —< LOST IN THOUGHT Robert Frost at his home in Vermont in 1955. first book,“A Boy’s Will” (1915)—which contained many poems written after the death of Frost’s son Elliott in 1900—adapts Tennyson’s 1850 elegy “In Memoriam A.H.H.” Mr. Plunkett’s suggestive linkage undergirds the sub- tle “logic of grief” that runs through the book. Grief would come to define Frost’s life. In 1934, decades after he lost two young children, his daughter Marjorie died from a postpartum infection. In 1938 Elinor died after suffering multi- ple heart attacks. In 1940 Frost’s son Carol took his own life. And in 1947 Frost’s daughter Irma, long unstable, broke down and entered a mental insti- tution. The same fate had befallen Frost’s sister, Jeanie, in 1920. This string of tragedies might call to mind the trials of Job. Frost certainly made the connection: by 1942 he had drafted “A Masque of Reason,” a drama that Frost saw as a fictional, final chapter to the biblical Book of Job. As Job despaired, so did Frost. The poet “had always managed to intimate the movements of a turbulent depth below a calm surface,” Mr. Plunkett writes. He argues that Frost’s personal- ity and poetry alike served as a barrier protecting him from the painful truths of existence. But shortly after Elinor’s death, that barrier “was gone. His friends feared for his sanity.” Frost’s behavior sometimes justified that fear. The year after Carol’s suicide, he set fire to the schoolbooks of his friend Kay Morrison’s 4-year-old daughter, after picking them up and finding them, Mr. Plunkett writes, “contemptibly simplistic.” At one point in the summer of 1945 he “began a strange, unnatural chant and took an axe into his cabin, threatening to kill An Education in Confusion himself with it.” In 1947, in the thick of Irma’s mental collapse and during a rare bout of drinking, he smashed his desk with a hammer. Frost also entered a relationship with Morrison that, like his prickliest poems, would invite boundless exegesis on the parts of his acquaintances and biographers. More than twenty years younger than Frost, Morrison was mar- ried and working as the poet’s amanu- ensis. He claimed their connection was romantic; she claimed it was not. Whatever its true nature, the relation- ship lasted the rest of Frost’s life. This unconventional arrangement was among the arresting details appearing in Lawrance Thompson’s three-volume biography of Frost (1966-77), which presented its subject, the critic Helen Vendler argued, as a “monster.” The decades since have seen various efforts to balance the record, of which Mr. Plunkett’s book is the latest. He shines when analyzing the psychological forces propelling Frost and his circle: for instance, how the grieving Frost may have portrayed Frost’s verse is appealing and approachable. His personal life was shot through with pain. his earlier self in a misleadingly unap- pealing way, biasing his acquaintances’ perspectives against him, or how Thompson’s infatuation with the work of the psychoanalyst Karen Horney persuaded him of one interpretation of his subject—Frost as neurotic—while blinding him to others. In the process of sorting through such uncertainties, Mr. Plunkett adds new ones. He takes a mysteriously inventive approach to chronology, sometimes skipping past a central period—such as Frost’s years in Eng- land—only to double back to it later. Mr. Plunkett’s prose, usually elegant and allusive, can grow as unkempt as the young Frost’s hair, with overlong sentences whose meanings point in multiple possible directions. And he pays surprisingly little attention to the potential role of Frost’s turbulent child- hood in his later difficulties. (Frost’s father was a drinker whose brutality sometimes sent his mother “running out into the street in fear.” ) Yet “Love and Need” proves an illu- minating tour of Frost’s life as well as his afterlife on the page, and these nuanced readings deepen our under- standing of his still-powerful poems. Mr. Plunkett offers a compelling reminder that—to quote one of Frost’s favorite lines, by the poet George Mer- edith—‘“No villain need be!” Ms. Deutsch’s reviews and essays appear in Harper’s, Poetry and other publications. Sam SACKS ‘ARTISTS USED TO think about art through art. Now they think about it through Theory,” laments a character in Michelle de Kre- tser’s “Theory & Practice” (Catapult, 192 pages, $25). But the complaint falls on deaf ears, as the novel's narrator is bewitched by the apparently irre- sistible spell of poststructuralism. “Theory rejected binaries, exposed aporias, and posited,” she says. “It posited that meaning was unstable and endlessly deferred.” It is the mid-1980s and the narrator, a doctoral candidate Inthe in Melbourne, is writing a thesis days on “constructions of gender” in when the novels of Virginia Woolf while struggling to apply her scholar- Fren ch ship’s concepts to her own life literary and loves. theo ry Woolf is one of the book's . polestars, an Ur-feminist deity Was In whose pioneering writing about fashio n, women provides English majors a a group wellspring of inspiration. But the of narrator’s admiration for the “Woolfmother” is conflicted by students the discovery of her hero’s snob- tried it bery and racism. (Woolf’s diary onasa likened a Sri Lankan politician to . a “caged monkey.”) Her second gul de to problematic infatuation is with a life and sexy student named Kit, who reg- love. ularly steps out on his girlfriend to share the narrator’s bed. “We have a deconstructed relation- ship,” Kit explains, by way of excuse, and such tortured lan- guage is indicative of the impossi- bility of trying to cinch the com- plications of reality inside “the corset of Theory.” Of course, you or I could have told her that from the start. “Theory & Practice” is a curious book, an ambiguous mixture of nostalgia and satire, and of fiction and memoir by an Australian writer who is, like her main char- acter, of Sri Lankan descent. It’s similar in ways to Jeffrey Eugenides’s novel “The Marriage Plot” (2011), which was also about a love triangle among 1980s grad students in thrall to then-fashion- able thinkers such as Derrida and Barthes. Ms. de Kretser, a sharp, nimble stylist, seeds in charming flashes of dry humor throughout. “I discovered that ‘foreground’ had become a verb. I practiced using ‘différance’ and ‘logocentric’ and ‘will-to-power’ in sentences,” the narrator says of her campus initiation. “Have you come across Guy?” a friend asks in reference to a charismatic lecturer. “He’s an Althusserian Marxist.” In comparison to the comedy, however, the narrator’s artistic coming-of-age feels faint, much more theory than substance. The unstructured, neither-this-nor- that nature of the book is plainly intentional, a form, the narrator explains, that allows “for form- lessness and mess.” But a novel that has no plot and only a shift- ing, ambivalent point of view relies heavily on its subject being inherently interesting. This is a book that presumes more signifi- cance than it earns, making it, in certain ways, as inaccessible to the general reader as the aca- demic writing it professes to deride. The reader’s appetite for liter- ary theory is tested even further in Cristina Rivera Garza’s “Death Takes Me” (Hogarth, 320 pages, $28), an intellectual mystery in Theory & Practice
