METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: Real Estate
Title: HILELSBORE RESIDENCESHILLSBOROBEACH.COM thie clay. ° » *, - ‘We want it to bea place where all so...
ID: 162

CONTENT:
HILELSBORE RESIDENCESHILLSBOROBEACH.COM thie clay. ° » *, - ‘We want it to bea place where all socio-economic segments congregate, where artists can afford to live’ and the signs of renovation shine out from between gritty facades: new paint, polished glass in ornate French doors, balconies reconstructed from archival photos. The old French consulate has become a sleek four-storey co-working complex. The Cinema Radio, a once nearly-defunct landmark, now houses an espresso bar, an excellent Levantine bistro and an outpost of Diwan, Cairo’s female-founded booksellers. Its main theatre has been partially restored and regularly hosts events tied to the city’s burgeoning culture calendar. For some Egyptians of a certain gener- ation, a putative Downtown renaissance isn't easy to get one’s head around, much less invest in. “[Well-to-do] people born in the 1980s live in the compounds and suburbs, and they go out to restaurants and bars and cafés there,” says Omniya Abdel Barr, an architect and the devel- opment director of the Egyptian Herit- age Rescue Foundation. But “these [developers] are engaged people,” she continues. “They're encouraging others to come, spend and invest, to own and patronise businesses here. “What Karim is doing is actually bringing that kind of traffic back here again. It’s not just the restorations, but the activities [he supports], the ten- ants, like Diwan, that he is bringing in. And he has contributed to the cultural calendar, by helping to make the ven- ues it requires.” Karim is Karim Shafei, chair of real estate investment fund (Clockwise from main) Haussmann- style buildings on Talaat Harb square; a refurbished apartment in the Immobilia building; the renovated La Viennoise building; the Cinema Radio building; the city aims to increase its pockets of urban Mark Anthony Fox AlIsmaelia. Founded in 2008, today it owns 25 properties across Downtown: besides the Cinema Radio complex, these include buildings housing high- spec serviced apartments, boutique office spaces, and studios and show- rooms for artists and designers, some of them partially subsidised. In the small back streets behind Cinema Radio, amid metal workshops and shi- sha bars, Al Ismaelia has renovated a second theatre, two hangar-like ware- houses for events and exhibitions, and a row of small shopfronts among whose tenants are a vintage-clothing seller and a young textile designer. Al Ismaelia’s backers include Samih Sawiris, former chair of Goliath con- struction-development conglomerate Orascom (who counts properties in Andermatt, Lustica Bay in Montenegro, and El Gouna on Egypt’s Red Sea Coast in his portfolio) and a handful of Saudi investors. (Recent investment co-opera- tion with Saudi Arabia has seen billions flow into the country, much of it directed into tourism and real estate.) Shafei says his fund’s mission is a revival of Down- town’s fortunes, making it a place that reflects a contemporary version of Egypt. He'll happily celebrate the dusty but enduring appeal of its old-school addresses as much as the next Cairene: on a long walk through the neighbour- hood, we duck into Estoril (opened 1962; ee
