METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: Real Estate
Title: WAT IE ILE LONDON Discover the last remaining residences at The Whiteley, London. Seamlessly blen...
ID: 164

CONTENT:
WAT IE ILE LONDON Discover the last remaining residences at The Whiteley, London. Seamlessly blending rich heritage with modern luxury, these light-filled apartments feature ceilings up to six metres high and wide spanning terraces. With exclusive access to Londons first Six Senses Hotel and spa, The Whiteley delivers a truly unique THEWHITELEYLONDON.COM West London lifestyle. Apartment prices from 41.5m. +44 (0) 20 34 320 581/sales@thewhiteleylondon.com 6 House Home t Cordelia de Castellane’s country home, a seven-and-a- half-acre prop- erty an hour north-east of Paris, in the heavily wooded Oise region, flowers are everywhere — inside and out. There are jugs of sweet- smelling mimosa in the kitchen, towering arrange- ments of winter branches cir- cled in silvery strands of cle- matis in her airy bright salon, and bowls of forced hya- cinths perched on piles of books. On every surface, from mantles to side tables, are ter- racotta pots bearing delicate paper- whites. The air is heady with fragrance. Flowers also scramble up the walls on Bennison wallpapers and, in her blush- pink sitting room, antique sofas are upholstered in archive floral prints from her alma mater, Emanuel Ungaro. For the creative director of Dior Maison, a home without colourful blooms is not a home at all. This spring de Castellane is releasing her second book, Flower Couture: From My Garden to My House, a paean to all things floral that illustrates how her gar- den here in Oise is the real inspiration for her work at Dior and her own design studio. “Really, here is my laboratory,” she says. It’s apt, for at Dior, flowers are quite literally sewn into the DNA of the house; Christian Dior famously sewed his favourite lily of the valley blooms in the hems of his haute couture gowns, and based his most enduring silhouettes on the corolla shape of flowers. De Castellane’s interest in gardening and growing has also compelled her to open a shop-cum-café on Paris’s Left Bank. “I wanted a place where I could sell my flow- ers. But also to explain how interesting and exciting it is to have seasonal flowers that come from close by.” She loves introducing customers to concepts and plants that are new to them: currently it’s all about forced bulbs that will scent the house through the winter months. “I want slowly to try to seduce people — and the younger generation — to be close to all that.” Her young- est son, who is 13 (she has four children), already has the gardening bug, she says. As a child, de Castellane divided her time between Paris and Switzerland, where her maternal grandmother passed on her love of wild flowers. Her eye for decor (as well as a love of all things English) comes from her Greek mother Atalanta, an interior designer. But it was her late father, Count Henri de Castellane, who encouraged her to nur- ture her love of gardening, through buy- ing her current home. With her husband Igor de Limur, she had been renting an adjoining guest house for three years when, in 2018, the whole property became available. “I ‘Gardening saved me from a lot of sadness that maybe I wouldnt otherwise have overcome was not planning to buy,” says de Castel- lane, but her father was adamant she should. “I was always in love with this house. So I thought, ‘OK, I don’t know how, but I’m going to buy it.” When her father died just a few weeks later, nur- turing the gardens became her therapy. “[ Gardening] saved me from a lot of sadness that maybe I wouldn't [other- wise] have overcome. I was really close to my father, speaking to him twice a day. He left a very big empty space,” she says. “The garden brings life. It gives hope — because you see the garden die and come back. You are completely in the bubble.” When she arrived here, she was a horticulture novice. “The [gardeners oe FT Weekend ~a* . Gardens | Dior Maison’s Cordelia de Castellane’s Oise idyll mixes wild meadows, box hedges and neat rows of 7 “4 + - eas 6a meee he, peonies and poppies. Its a ‘laboratory for creativity, she tells Clare Coulson. Photography by Billal Taright Cordelia de Castellane’s quick tips for creating cohesion and focus in your garden e Arranging pots on different levels rather than all on the ground creates unexpected texture; use antique metal stands Cher largest stands are well over 10fft tall) to create different arrangements through the seasons; evergreens including box and myrtle can look striking. « Handmade and recycled materials add character; de Castellane weaves her own willow plant supports and garden gates are crafted in gnarly branches pieced together in a lattice. e In the garden repeat the same plants for a strong, cohesive aesthetic; the exterior of her house is swathed in luscious Pierre de Ronsard roses — a timeless full-cupped cultivar with creamy pink flowers. e Create viewpoints; de Castellane sets up tables throughout her garden for entertaining and uses these to establish focal points. These can vary throughout the seasons — she even uses her greenhouse for entertaining in the cooler months. ¢ In spring, arrangements of forced + MZ ‘I feel very close to Monsieur Dior. He was a man of nature, aman very close to the soil’ would] say, “You can’t put roses here. Are you mad?” So she swotted up, con- suming podcasts, books, magazines and every scrap of advice from friends including Flora Astor and floral designer Willow Crossley. And she enlisted garden designer Milan Hajsinek to help reimagine the space. Together, they added English-style borders at the back of the house, witha central lovers’ walk; a four quarters garden is edged in lavender and filled with a succession of flowers from springtime on. A greenhouse sits in the middle of the garden, leading to more beds for cut flowers, herbs and a kitchen garden. branches are a one-stop shop for a pretty table; cut cherry branches weeks before they are due to bloom. In the warmth of a house they will flower long before they would outside. e Vases are characters. De Castellane has spent a lifetime collecting antique china, pots, jugs and glasses. Even if they are not watertight she adds a small glass inside to hold water for her flowers. “I am known in my family as the garbage collector, because | collect every old thing.” 22 February/23 February 2025 Cordelia de Castellane (pictured) was a self- confessed horticultural novice when she took on the country house in Oise, northern France; with the help of garden designer Milan Hajsinek she has reimagined the space, creating a combination of French chic and English exuberance — and a home suffused with flowers, indoors and out The house’s front garden, in contrast, is typically French, with an immacu- late square lawn, clipped box balls and pristine gravel paths providing a chic, elegant contrast to the creamy stone building that is thought at one time to have served as an abbey. Hajsinek rationalised the Space and brought clever ideas — such as adding a win- dow in an old stone wall, which now opens out to views over the landscape. He also incorporated structure, with a , curving, cloud- ' pruned border of shrubs that cir- cles areas of wild- flower meadow in the summer months, At that time of year, each corner of the gar- ' den becomes a backdrop to exu- berant tables for 4 de Castellane’s a events: colour- themed scenes of soft linens, elegant crockery, Murano glass, a profusion of candles and arrangements of seasonal flowers. De Castellane credits her love of col- our and decoration in part to her time spent working at Ungaro, aged 16. “I knew nothing when | arrived,” she says of her cultural education with Emanuel and Laura Ungaro that spanned fashion, flowers, music, art, poetry — and beauti- ful table settings. “I learnt every- thing . . . But mostly I started to dare to mix things.” She left Ungaro and launched an eponymous children’s col- lection in 2007 before Delphine Arnault hired her to become creative director of Baby Dior in 2012. Five years later, she took on the same role at Dior Maison; she creates annual collections of home- wares that include crockery, table lin- ens, glassware, candles and gifts. In Oise, she has recently added another flower field — filled with neat lines of dahlias, cosmos, peonies, poppies and 24,000 spring bulbs. She has another field a five-minute drive away. Twice a week in the growing season, flowers are transported to her Paris shop. Now, she is about to start work on land west of the house on her most ambitious project to date: installing a natural swim- ming pool, renovating a series of build- ings and adding another two gardens, one of irises and another featuring roses and peonies. It’s an epic undertaking spanning a large field that links to the unused buildings that sit on her land, but she’s determined to tackle this project herself without using a designer. “It might be a disaster,” she says looking out over the expanse of bare land. “But it’s exciting to challenge myself.” Almost every weekend she retreats here from Paris, trailed by her six- month-old miniature Australian Shep- herd, Mowgli. She fills the house with cut flowers, and plots future plantings; when we meet, the pigeonnier (or dove- cote) in front of her house is crammed with shelves of seeds and pots of spring bulbs in their wintry slumber. “I hope one day we can do a florist with all Monsieur Dior’s favourite flow- ers,’ she says. “I come back with [the idea] every three months. They’re like, “Yes, OK, we'll think about it.” De Cas- tellane feels “very close” to Dior, she says. “He was a man of nature, a man very close to the soil of the flowers. He was an Aquarius like me. He was very superstitious like me. Of course, there’s pressure, but I always felt like it is very easy tocreate.” It seems highly likely that she'll get the idea to take root. “Flower Couture: From My Garden to My House” by Cordelia de Castellane is published by Rizzoli 22 February/23 February 2025 * FT Weekend United | Sotheby’s Kingdom INTERNATIONAL REALTY Stanton Court, Stanton, Gloucestershire 11 Bedrooms, 14 Bathrooms, 25,578 sq.ft. Set in the Cotswolds Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty, this striking listed manor house sits on a 12-acre plot. The property encompasses a main house, four cottages and landscaped gardens. Features include a double-height living area, an indoor pool and a cricket ground. Search 45447 on sothebysrealty.co.uk £12,950,000 i = = sa ‘t“#a = — coy . a & cI i te is Hi = 6 f a r ~ ae on WOON Stinnett U0 filter PY = Cheyne Walk, Chelsea | £3,600,000 Eaton Square, Belgravia | £11,950,000 Cheval Place, Knightsbridge | £27,000,000 3 Bedrooms, 2 Bathrooms, 1,854 sq.ft. 4 Bedrooms, 3 Bathrooms, 3,024 sq. ft. 8 Bedrooms, 9 Bathrooms, 8,086 sq.ft. An uplifting urban oasis with unobstructed views over the Hardwood flooring, original cornicing and generousvolumes Three refined apartments united by distinctive design and River Thames. characterise this distinguished penthouse. connected via a direct lift. Search 45266 on sothebysrealty.co.uk Search 46003 on sothebysrealty.co.uk Search 46593 on sothebysrealty.co.uk Hans Place, Knightsbridge | £40,000,000 Devonshire Place, Marylebone | £7,250,000 Balmoral House, Earls Way | £5,485,000 6 Bedrooms, 6 Bathrooms, 11,355 sq.ft. 4 Bedrooms, 4 Bathrooms, 3,570 sq.ft. 2 Bedrooms, 2 Bathrooms, 1,959 sq.ft. This sprawling apartment features several reception An urbane home that strikes a balance between A design-led penthouse with an expansive terrace and rooms, a cinema and exquisite finishes. contemporary leisure and period elegance. showstopping Tower Bridge views. Search 41606 on sothebysrealty.co.uk Search 45459 on sothebysrealty.co.uk Search 44859 on sothebysrealty.co.uk Kingdom ih INTERNATIONAL REALTY [lie Mi adel sothebysrealty.co.uk | +44 20 4587 1927 | customercare@sothebysrealty.co.uk Disclaimer: The information contained herein, including the photographs and copy on this page, was accurate and valid at the time of issuance. o J House&sHome (Clockwise from main) The stainless steel serving area doubles asa kitchen table; a pot filler tap; the Wolf hob; an ‘origami’ roof over the side return; sliding doors conceal utensils; Zac Inwald and Hilary Brett; herbs and spices secreted away FT Weekend 22 February/23 February 2025 Interiors | Two food insiders wanted a kitchen fit for the pros. Their design is worthy ofa Michelin star, finds Carl Wilkinson. Photography by Evie Milsom or most people, bringing work home tends to be something to avoid. For Zac Inwald, former head chef at Michelin-starred Shoreditch restaurant Brat, and Hilary Brett, former operations manager at Taiwanese-inspired restau- rant chain Bao, a healthy work-life bal- ance means something rather different. Their east London home is filled with food-related touches, from the print of Henry Matisse’s “The Dance” in the master bedroom, reworked with figures clutching Bao buns, to the giant crisp- shaped shade above their bed, jokingly referred to as “the Pringle light”. A strik- ing Mexican onyx basin in the bath- room looks like “marbled beef”. Most striking, however, is the bespoke, restaurant-quality kitchen featuring an enormous semicircular island, conceived as a chef’s table. The action centres on the Wolf hob with a professional extraction hood (“I constantly set off fire alarms when I’m cooking,’ says Inwald). There are slid- ing stainless steel panels on either side of the splashback, hiding knives and utensils on the right, spectacularly well organised herbs and spices on the left. Beside the wine fridge is a freezer complete with a shelf of iced glassware — “if you need a martini after a long day at work,” says Inwald. A drawer opens to reveal a vacuum sealing machine for storing leftovers, and a steam oven allows sous vide cooking, “in case you fancy a24-hour slow-braised short rib”. But it is the counter that holds the room. With Inwald at the hob preparing a lunch of Japanese rice porridge with velvet crab stock, monkfish, kimchi, pickled cucumber and steamed mush- rooms, it’s hard not to feel that you're at the chef’s table of an exclusive restau- rant Michelin has yet to discover. Inwald, who was born in Australia and moved to the UK nine years ago, trained under Neil Perry at Rockpool in Sydney with a brief internship at Tho- mas Keller’s Per Se in New York. He then worked at Heston Blumenthal’s Dinner in London before he became head chef at Tomos Parry’s Brat. He’s now head of kitchens for London’s Stanley Pubs group. “I initially thought I’d have a French country house-style kitchen with copper pans hanging from the ceil- ing,’ he says of the space. Instead, he found himself gravitating towards the utilitarian material of the professional kitchen: stainless steel. “Working in professional kitchens my entire life, I always found the quirks of home kitchens frustrating,” he says. “We got to design all of them out when we created this. We could have sinks that are the right size, put in a proper extractor, and make things stainless steel so you can scrub them down.” Pensaer architects, who helped recon- figure the whole building, added a side return extension with an “origami” roof of three triangular glazed panels, creat- ing more space in the kitchen and allow- ing the couple to combine an island with a dining table, rather than having to squeeze them in separately. A curved bench under a window looks out on to the outdoor kitchen. “My big love is fire cooking,” says Inwald. The wood-fired pizza oven by Gozney was the first thing he purchased for the house. “It’s so versatile. Anything you cook in it is just delicious. I’ve never been a pizza chef — I’m still learning — but I’ve done a lot of wood fire, charcoal cooking over my career, and so I gravi- tate towards that.” Beside the pizza oven is a charcoal grill by Firemade, the company that built the baskets in which Brat’s raft “is cool”, says Isobel Den- nis, director of Collect, the annual contemporary craft and design fair in London. “In a technology- heavy world, its relevance has never been greater.” Established by the Crafts Council, the fair’s 2025 edition runs from February 28 to March 2 at Somerset House. While the 400-plus makers — from textile artists to metalsmiths — draw on techniques stretching back cen- turies, if not millennia, they are produc- ing works that spark new ideas and inno- vate. The best pieces are not just sought- after by collectors and interior design- ers, they “enrich our lives”, says Dennis. Lee So-ra Comprising abstracted patterns of deli- cate fabric, the work of Korean artist Lee So-ra — presented by Lloyd Choi Gallery — appears like stained glass. Lee’s medium is jogakbo, a traditional Korean patchwork style using leftover textiles. “I love how small fabric scraps can be continuously stitched together to create something entirely new,” she says. Lee works with Oksa silk and ramie, used for traditional Korean clothing, and hand-dyes these with homegrown botanical pigments. She then cuts the fabric into geometrical shapes, layers them and hems them using a special technique called Ssamsol stitching, then sews the various fragments into a com- position. The resulting works are either framed or free-hanging; some comprise more than 8,000 pieces of fabric. James Trundle and Isobel Napier Partners James Trundle and Isobel Napier met at art school in London and pursued their separate practices — car- pentry and textile art — before looking at how they could work together. Debuting at Collect with Flow Gallery, the duo pro- duces sculptural furniture and artworks that marry digital techniques with the natural idiosyncrasies of timber. In a series of wall pieces, panels of offcuts are 3D-milled to create an undu- lating surface and then laser-engraved with patterns that enhance the wood’s grain. “It blurs the boundaries between craft, fine art and furniture,” says Trun- dle. The pair want to scale up their works to create whole interiors, and have several pieces on show at Collect. Chisato Yasui From her base in Japan, Chisato Yasui draws on her background in oil painting to create coil-formed ceramics that blend the painterly and the sculptural. The clay, she says, “is a perfect medium to tangibly experience and shape the underlying flow of my emotions”. signature dish — whole grilled turbot — is cooked. “When the weather’s nice, this is my playground,” says Inwald. Brett — with her experience of front of house presentation — has been instru- mental in the look and feel of the interi- ors. She currently works for hospitality ‘L always found the quirks of home kitchens frustrating. We got to design all of them out’ incubator White Rabbit Projects, which has helped develop brands such as Lina Stores, Kricket and Island Poké. She grew up in Honduras where her civil servant father was working on agri- cultural projects; the experience has influenced her home. “What I love so much about South and Central America Tt) eae Ht a 2 | TSW . (Clockwise from left) Chisato Yasui’s ceramics blend the painterly and the sculptural; Lee So-ra’s delicate patchwork fabric resembles stained glass; a wooden vessel made by Darren Appiagyei; a laser-cut steel chair with hand-woven Danish paper cord made by James Trundle and Isobel Napier; Shinta Nakajima creates sculptures in silver, inspired by nature Isobel Napier; Sayuri Ishii is that when someone says you can come and stay whenever you like they really mean it. It’s all about hosting and hospi- tality.” And then there’s the colour. “Everything in South America is so colourful and so very vibrant. I wanted to bring that feeling of joy into the house.” A rich earthy red dominates the basement guest room ceiling and continues into the exposed steelwork of the kitchen; moving up through the house, yellow appears as an accent; and in the bathroom rich cobalt-blue tiles — handmade in Morocco — sit alongside a bold blue ceiling. The colour was inspired by Haggerston wine bar Planque. Beyond the kitchen, the house has seen other transformations. Previously, “there were magi- cians that lived in this house,” says Brett. “When we moved in, there were mirrors everywhere.” They had used them to rehearse, checking what the audience could see of their tricks. “It was hilarious, we kept finding them as we were knocking things down. There was one inside a wall, and the bathroom was completely mirrored.” Elsewhere, “the stairs came out and it was almost back to a shell,” says Rhys Owen, founder and director of Pensaer. “Everything’s been reconfigured. It’s been a fun process because there’s a lot of interesting geometries and combina- tions of materials and colours.” A bespoke steel hand rail now runs like a spine to the “treehouse room” in the attic where windows open on to views across the chimney pots towards the tower of Stoke Newington’s St Matthias church. “When we were looking, we asked ‘where do we always end up spending all our time?’,” says Brett of their house hunt. “Dalston’s just down the road for a big night out. Earth is a great music and comedy venue. And then if we want to have a coffee, we can go up to Church Street.” The fresh produce available in the area was a draw, too. “Newington Green has just become this absolute hub of great food,” says Inwald. “There’s an incredible green- grocer, amazing butcher, and my dear friend — and man with the best name ever — Danny Mustard, runs probably the best fishmonger in London here, Oeno Maris.” The couple are always welcoming visi- tors. “We had some friends stay over the weekend, and we pretty much sat down here at 2pm and Zac started putting some snacks out,” says Brett. “We opened some wine and the next thing you know, it’s lam, and Zac’s just been slowly feeding us. It’s the perfect hosting station.” Pee ee PPE eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee SEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE REE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EERE EEE EERE EEE EEE EERE EERE EEE EE EE EEE EE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EERE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EE EEE EE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EE EERE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EERE EERE EEE EE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EERE EEE EEE EEE EE RHEE EEE EEE EEE HERE E EEE EE ES PEE EERE ETE TET EEE TREE TTT TTT TET TEE TET ETT TE TT TT TE RT TT TTT TTT TT TT TTT TTT TTT TTT TTT TT TTT TTT TTT TTT TTT TTT TTT TET TTT eT Material gains Craft | Francesca Perry spotlights makers at the Collect fair, froma Korean jogakbo artist toa wood-turner working with banksia nuts Her Profile series, on show with AIFA gallery, strikes a cubist note: abstract assemblages of geometric forms with glazes of varying hues. These are inspired by magnetic building blocks her children used to play with. “They often turned these creations into their ‘home’ or ‘castle’, weaving stories around them,” she says. Darren Appiagyei London-based wood-turner Darren Appiagyei creates vessels from banksia nuts and burr wood, irregular growths in trees that appear like deformities. Appiagyei’s project “What Grows In the Dark Comes to Light” explores his late mother’s experience with fibroids, non-cancerous but sometimes painful growths in or around the uterus. He used tools to create different textures — and even burnt some of the pieces, “dot by dot”, resulting in intricate patterns. Shinta Nakajima Sheffield-based Shinta Nakajima works with silver, creating sculptures, lights and other decorative objects that are inspired by nature and influenced by the city’s metalworking heritage. His ongoing Acanthus series, exhibited with The Goldsmiths’ Company, depicts the plant’s leaves as twisting silver forms, reinterpreting its use in architecture asa symbol of enduring life. Nakajima calls his works “vessels”, though they are not practically so; in his mind, the silver forms protectively wrap around a void. He works at the city’s Silver Space studio, which supports the next generation of silversmiths. Craft Council's Collect Art Fair, Somerset House, London, February 28-March 2 22 February/23 February 2025 FT Weekend OVE Greenwich Village | Manhattan 34 West 11th St, Townhouse, New York, NY 4BR | 6Full | 1 Half Bath | $20,900,000 Deborah Grubman (m) +1 917.597.7695 David M Adler (m) +1 917.520.2786 Lenox Hill | Manhattan 950 Fifth Avenue, 2, New York, NY 2 BR | 4Bath | $7,950,000 Chris Kann (m) +1 646.660.2105 West Village | Manhattan 400 West 12th Street, 15CD, New York, NY 3 BR | 3 Full | 1 Half Bath | $19,850,000 Deborah Grubman (m) +1 917.597.7695 David M Adler (m) +1 917.520.2786 Upper West Side | Manhattan 25 Central Park West, 70, New York, NY 2-3 BR | 2 Bath | $6,950,000 Chris Kann (m) +1 646.660.2105 Jennifer L Ireland (m) +1 917.669.1440 Upper East Side | Manhattan 9 East 79th Street, 6/7, New York, NY 4BR | 4Full | 1 Half Bath | $11,850,000 Deborah Grubman (m) +1 917.597.7695 David M Adler (m) +1 917.520.2786 Upper West Side | Manhattan 158 West 92nd Street, New York, NY 4BR | 4Bath | $6,950,000 Chris Kann (m) +1 646.660.2105 Central Park South | Manhattan 150 Central Park South, 3001, New York, NY 3 BR | 3 Bath | $9,995,000 Catherine Juracich (m) +1 646.283.1384 Thomas Ventura (m) +1 814.404.7716 Flatiron | Manhattan 15 West 24th Street, 6, New York, NY 5 BR | 3 Full | 1 Half Bath | $5,995,000 Catherine Juracich (m) +1 646.283.1384 Thomas Ventura (m) +1 814.404.7716 Lenox Hill | Manhattan 170 East End Avenue, 10/11B, New York, NY 3BR | 3 Full | 1 Half Bath | $5,995,000 Jennifer P. Bowden (m) +1 917.405.4305 Lenox Hill | Manhattan 130 William St, LOGGIA59B, New York, NY 2 BR | 2 Full | 1 Half Bath | $5,199,999 Ali Raza (m) +1 929.386.4815 Tribeca | Manhattan 8 Thomas Street, PH, New York, NY 4BR | 3 Bath | $4,750,0000 Deborah Grubman (m) +1 917.597.7695 David M Adler (m) +1 917.520.2786 Lenox Hill | Manhattan 131 East 66th St, 2/3C/S3, New York, NY 4BR | 2 Full | 1 Half Bath | $4,090,000 Sebastian Steinau (m) +1 917.446.0205 Brooklyn Heights | Brooklyn 90 Furman Street, N216, Brooklyn, NY 2BR | 2 Full | 1 Half Bath | $3,695,000 Leslie Marshall (m) +1 646.361.3384 Jim Cornell Lic. as James S Cornell (m) +1 917.882.4412 Nick Hovsepian (m) +1 310.748.8668 Lic. as Nicholas Andrew Hovsepian Park Slope | Brooklyn 35 Prospect Park West, 14C, Brooklyn, NY 3 BR | 3 Bath | $3,250,000 Jackie Torren Lic. as Jacqueline Torren (m) +1 917.287.4249 Charlie Pigott Lic. as Charles C Pigott (m) +1 917.771.5346 Midtown | Manhattan 325 Fifth Avenue, 30C, New York, NY 2 BR | 2 Bath | $1,950,000 Caroline Holl (m) +1 917.836.8611 Murray Hill | Manhattan 45 Park Avenue, 1206, New York, NY 1BR | 1 Full | 1 Half Bath | $1,675,000 Denise Kelly (m) +1 917.697.5348 Michael Turtora (m) +1 646.727.0782 House&sHome arbella 2.0 Spain property | Branded residences and a growing tech scene are leading the Andalusian hotspot's reinvention as a year-round place to live — elevating its reputation beyond golf and bling. By Zoe Dare Hall or Marbella’s most recent resi- dents, one primary hubis nota designer beach club or Miche- lin-starred restaurant. It’s The Pool: not of the infinity kind, but acavernous glass and steel co-work- ing space on the Golden Mile. Its mem- bers come from more than 30 countries and are “particularly young people involved in start-ups”, says its Swedish co-founder Christian Rasmusson. Such a demographic is prominent in what Rasmusson calls “Marbella 2.0” — the Costa del Sol town’s transition from tourist resort and golf-centred retire- ment destination to a year-round home for young entrepreneurs and families. Many of them are digital nomads capi- talising on a growing tech scene, a prolif- eration of homes in new branded devel- opments, as well as excellent healthcare and international schools — including Swans and Svenska Skolan, the Swedish school, which recently upped its capac- ity by 50 per cent to 300. British buyers in 2023 ranked as the biggest foreign segment (15 per cent) in the Malaga province — which includes Marbella — with Swedish in second place (8 per cent). But when you wander around Marbella, English voices are far less prevalent than they were a few years ago. There’s also uncertainty among British would-be buyers since Pedro Sanchez, Spain’s prime minister, proposed a 100 per cent tax — or evena ban — on non-resident, non-EU “specu- lators” to ease the country’s “housing emergency’. Andrew Humphreys, 59, a chief financial officer from Stafford- shire, recently bought a penthouse near Marbella for personal use, “not prima- rily as an investment’, he says. “But we did have some hesitation that [Sanchez’s proposed change] might lower resale values in the future.” Instead, Marbella 2.0 is leaning more towards a new phase for “Scandalucia”. Of the 320 companies in the Malaga region that have at least one Swedish owner, 200 are in Marbella. Many of them are in Nueva Andalucia — an afflu- ent area nicknamed “Little Stockholm”, where high-end villas have sweeping views across “Golf Valley”. And Swedish buyers spend more than any other, per square metre, on Spanish homes, according to property portal Idealista. Max Burde, 50, the founder of a Swedish car company, recently boughta part-time home in La Quinta, a golf resort north-west of Nueva Andalucia >» Apartment, Upper West Side, $5mn What A two-bedroom, two- bathroom duplex apartment in a neo-Renaissance-style 1918 building. Where In the Upper West Side, on the side of Central Park. Located on the cusp of the Lincoln Square neighbourhood, it’s a short walk to museums such as the Frick, Guggenheim and MoMA. Why The double-height living room with a fireplace and two full- height, 10ft-wide windows — one facing north, one facing east — with views over Central Park and beyond. Who Luxury Portfolio / Brown Harris Stevens where villas cost around €3.7mn to €14.5mn. “It’s similar to Los Angeles, with the mountains, the weather, the beach and nature,” he says. “I hope to move here permanently.” Also using The Pool as his HQ is Cana- dian entrepreneur Razor Suleman, who moved from Silicon Valley three years ago, with his wife Kari and their two young children. “Within four months, we'd bought our villa and we knew we were staying for good. As a place to bring up a family and find the next great tech companies, I feel we arrived at the exact right time,” says Suleman. His beachfront neighbourhood off the Golden Mile — a stretch of coastline between Puerto Banus, about 6km to the west, and the edge of Marbella city — counts Novak Djokovic and Swedish Spotify founder Daniel Ek as residents. “When we moved here, only one other family in our community of 50 or so homes was living here year-round. Now there are more than a dozen,” he says. ‘As a place to bring up a family and find the next great tech companies, I feel we arrived at the right time’ Marbella is now home to 153 national- ities, more than any other Spanish city after Madrid and Barcelona. Almost a third of its nearly 170,000 permanent residents are from overseas. And house prices have been rising: by 12.9 per cent in the year to January 2025, according to Idealista. That follows four consecutive years of annual 5 per cent to 7.2 per cent growth in the prime market, says Knight Frank, which predicts prime prices to rise by 5 per cent this year, its second- highest projected growth in Europe (joint with Madrid), after Stockholm. Pia Arrieta, managing partner at DM Properties, Knight Frank’s Marbella partner, attributes part of this growth to “much higher-quality refurbishment projects and new key-ready properties”. The latter includes Marbella’s first bran- ded schemes, such as Epic Marbella, opened in 2024 in partnership with Fendi Casa, where the Norwegian foot- baller Erling Haaland owns an apart- ment. When prices at Epic doubled within two years of launch to €20,000 per sq m, they set a new record for Marbella. Now prices for some homes (From top) A five-bedroom villa, Nueva Andalucia, €8mn, villaimaginemar bella.com; rendering of a kitchen at Design Hills, a Dolce & Gabbana- branded scheme due to complete in 2027; The Pool, a glass and steel co- working space on Marbella’s Golden Mile <4 Apartment, Yorkville, $2.595mn What A three-bedroom co-op apartment set across two floors in a fully serviced building with a gym, bike room and private outdoor garden. Where !n Yorkville, a neighbourhood in the Upper East Side. Central Park is about a 20-minute walk, while Carl Schurz Park is half a block away. Why The hallway and living areas feature hand-carved wood finishes by Dean Telfer, the campus architect of Columbia University. Who CB Warburg FT Weekend sf - <_< 14, Se .-f-.- . ‘ ; a | ° w > => 2 ’ a ’ ee e . . a - . — : . ae = ne ‘ : . : a A - ‘ 7 he ‘ty i Ff, 4 Qe | “Vi on the Golden Mile beachfront are reaching €30,000 per sq m, according to local agency Panorama Properties. In neighbouring Design Hills, a Dolce & Gabbana-branded scheme due to complete in 2027, apartments start at €5.5mn and one of the penthouses sold last year for €20mn. Here, too, there is high Scandinavian and Dutch interest, along with buyers from Mexico and Poland, one of the biggest emerging sources of demand for new-builds in Marbella, according to Knight Frank. Also under way, due to complete by early 2026, is UNO, which occupies the last beachside plot on the Golden Mile. Last year, there were 25 off-plan sales at an average price just under €7mn, according to the Norwegian agency, Solvilla. Two branded projects in Marbella East — where sand dunes, dotted by the occasional beach bar or restaurant, pro- vide a retreat from central Marbella — are expected to break ground this year too: The Four Seasons resort and another scheme, initially slated under the W hotel brand but still a work in progress, whose apartments and villas will overlook Real de Zaragoza beach. It’s not all plain sailing, however. Agents and others in the industry believe Sanchez’s proposed legislation against non-EU buyers is unlikely to pass. But in Marbella, some buyers are already backing off. Salim Akhtar, founder of Captain Costa Real Estate, has recently lost three North American buyers. “Most Spanish families I know with housing problems aren't looking for €1mn penthouses on golf resorts,” he says. “But this political diversion creates instability in the whole system.” Percy Roland, founder of Percy Roland Real Estate in Marbella, adds: “An Irish client of mine, who wouldn’t even be affected, has decided not to move ahead with his purchase as he fears what impact this sentiment will have on property prices.” The imminent end of Spain’s golden visa scheme is helping to mitigate any drop in demand, though, with buyers rushing to tie up deals before the April deadline. “Some are buying quickly at around the €500,000 threshold, just to get the visa, then they are going to take their time to find somewhere they want tolive,” says Roland. Lf & a4 4 had ~ . i.” a a Seal t. ai 2 [a SC i er we Paty Ye; ~) As e s - A Apartment, Chelsea, $2.495mn What A three-bedroom, two- bathroom co-op apartment set across three floors in a converted 1854 town house. The primary bedroom is on its own floor, and on the final floor is a smaller bedroom or office space with access to a roof terrace. Where |n Chelsea, known as the artistic district of Manhattan. Stefano Ukmar al sy ooh \\\ ii A ean TY. WV tena x Mar NY NY SENAY a0 20 294 GD at One BOs ~ ot et a ee ot eee We 22 February/23 February 2025 . — Sh. Marbella is also due to see its long overdue, new urban plan come to frui- tion within the next two years. But for now, its planning system still relies on the outdated one drawn up in 1986. Sub- sequent blueprints were scrapped as they were linked to decades of corrup- tion presided over by Jesus Gil, Mar- bella’s mayor in the 1990s. Gil — who, as a property developer early in his career, was handed a prison sentence after a building collapsed and killed 58 people — died in 2004 facing corruption charges. Many of his town hall col- leagues also ended up behind bars. Upto 18,000 homes in Marbella that date from Gil’s frantic building phase are left illegal and unsellable. Anew urban plan is widely welcomed. “But I'll believe it when I see it as it still has to go through a long legal process,” says Roland. Another issue is the city’s reputation for bling, perpetuated by reality TV shows. This “Marbs” of ill repute is a view held mainly by British people, argues Daniel Shamoon, owner of five-star hotels Puente Romano and the Marbella Club. “Buyers from Europe don’t see it in the same way.” He knows all about reputation, having acquired his hotels in 1993, “when Mar- bella had collapsed and its name became a dirty word”, says Shamoon. “In the past four years, the town has seen a huge resurgence. As a holiday destination, it has lots of competition. But as a place to live, I think it’s the best in Europe. It doesn’t have the tax bene- fits of Dubai or Miami, but you are immersed in Andalusia’s great cities, history, food and climate.” And for a new type of foreign buyer, there’s the lure of The Pool that isn’t for morning dips, but for networking with tech-minded nomads . . . before going to the beach with the family. PPP eee PC Pee eee eee Pee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee SEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EE EERE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE HEHEHE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EE EEE EE SHEE EE EEE EE EEEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE CHEE EERE EE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EE MEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EERE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EERE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE HEE EEE EE EEE EERE EEE EEE EE EEE EE EEE EE EEE HEE EEE EEE ES PEE EEE EEE EEE REE EERE EEE EEE EERE TREE EEE EEE EERE EERE EEE EEE EEE EE ETE EERE EEE EERE EEE EERE ERE REE EERE RET EEE ET EEE EEE REET ERT ET ERE RT RRR ERR Re Pete eee Hot propert Apartments, penthouses and condos that capture the essence of New York life — for $5mn or less. By Kitty Grady An entrance to the High Line is a short walk away and the nearby Chelsea Pier provides access to paths along the Hudson River. Why The main open-plan living and dining area has sliding doors that open on to a large sun-filled balcony that runs the full width of the property. Who Sotheby's International Realty — Downtown Manhattan Brokerage <4 Condominium, Midtown, $3.99mn What A three-bedroom, three- bathroom condominium with a 26ft open-plan living and dining room and skyline views of Manhattan. Where In Midtown on 57th Street, the so-called Billionaire’s Row of New York. Central Park is about 15 minutes by foot and JFK airport is 45 minutes by car, traffic dependent. Why The property is in a fully serviced building whose amenities include a 75ft swimming pool, fitness centre, spa with steam room and sauna, 7Oft terrace, screening room and guest suites. Who Brown Harris Stevens FT Weekend 11 22 February/23 February 2025 * Property Gallery Portugal . UK Office: +44 207 873 3989 | US Office: +1 201 600 0007 | ASIA Office: +852 2905 5579 | Email: miata (clase for more properties visit, ftpropertylistings.com | www.fft.com/house&home Magnificent 6-bedroom villa in Knight Quinta do Lago, Algarve ro: Frank This timeless home, located in an elevated position near the lake, seamlessly blends contemporary design with classic elegance. Its amenities provide the highest standard of living, featuring a rooftop ; ~ : a * P . -_# ; eat . ?- \ te: = ~~ J “ - terrace with an outdoor bar and mesmerising views, an entertainment area with a bar, a spacious family Fae . = England Dexters Mavlair, London Positioned close to the iconic Berkeley Square, a spectacular apartment with three bedrooms and magnificent living areas. There is the added luxury of air-conditioning throughout, energy rating c. In partnership with WETHERELL. Dexters Mayfair 020 7590 9595 £7,500 pw (8) @dexterslondon Strand, London In aprime central London address and in the heart of the West End, an exceptional townhouse with six bedrooms and six bathrooms. The Listed property spans seven floors and is complete with off-street parking and a lift. Dexters Marylebone 020 7224 5544 £8,000,000 (6) @dexterslondon Emerald Chateau The Jewel of Barbados A unique beachfront compound, this exclusive 75,000-square-foot, five-storey estate boasts four full-floor palatial Residences on 1.4 acres of manicured grounds with terraced pools complemented by an array of bespoke amenities. The opportunity to own one grand property with distinct living spaces is perfect for a family compound, a farnily office, or a member's club for those vvho desire to add a Caribbean idyll to rts property portfolio, US$ 75 million | EmeraldChateau.com Louise M. Guido ca Louise, Guido@MontageResidences.com EMERALD CHATEAU
