METADATA:
Source: Economist
Date: 2025-02-25
Categories: Inflation, Energy, Infrastructure
Title: WASHINGTON DOGE has joined a war of ideas under the guise of a budget fight MIX OF MAGA purists a...
ID: 173

CONTENT:
WASHINGTON DOGE has joined a war of ideas under the guise of a budget fight MIX OF MAGA purists and internation- alist Republicans staffed Donald Trump’s first administration, with the old establishment generally holding the upper hand. But in his second term the populists are driving policy, and congressional Re- publicans mostly have stood aside. Con- sider the muted response to Elon Musk’s attack on the National Endowment for De- mocracy (NED). Unlike some of Mr Musk’s broadsides against spending, this one is more about ideas than budget numbers. Ronald Reagan and Congress created NED in 1983 primarily to fight the spread of communism. A classic “soft power” organi- sation, the group backed pro-democracy activists in communist countries. NED’s backers argue it helped bring about an end to the cold war by highlighting the lack of democratic legitimacy in the Soviet Union and its satellite states. More recently the organisation has supported civil-society and pro-democracy groups in a host of The Economist February 22nd 2025 No more evil empires countries, such as Iran, China and Cuba. Since its founding the group has en- joyed bipartisan support, but its strongest fans traditionally have been international- ist Republicans. Robert O’Brien, Mr Trump’s former national security adviser, serves on the NED board; Elise Stefanik, the incoming US ambassador to the Unit- ed Nations, did so in the past. Its $300m budget is humble by federal standards. Mr Musk and his team have blocked disbursements to the group, effectively starving it and its grantees of funding. Ear- lier this month the DOGE boss called Todd Young, a Republican senator, “a deep state puppet” for serving on the NED board. The billionaire later retracted the statement after speaking with Mr Young, but he did not back down from his assault on the group. “That evil organisation needs to be dissolved,” Mr Musk said, adding without evidence that the group had committed “crimes”. Days later the Centre for Renew- ing America, a think-tank founded by Rus- sell Vought, Mr Irump’s activist budget chief, released a paper arguing that NED grants had “paved the way for the current Ukraine-Russia war” by supporting antt- Russian entities in Ukraine. Mr Irump’s recent declaration that Uk- raine is responsible for being invaded by its bigger neighbour echoes this line and is deeply at odds with how post-war Repub- licans once tackled international affairs. Conservatives critical of the attack on NED privately rue that Mr Musk and Mr Vought sound like the old left, seeing an American conspiracy at the root of all global con- flicts. America’s adversaries. such as China, on the other hand, will welcome the dis- ruption of support for dissidents. The funding cut-off has had immediate and dramatic effects. [he International Republican Institute, a NED grantee that >> The Economist February 22nd 2025 conducts election monitoring and helps with anti-corruption efforts, has fur- loughed most of its employees and closed oftices around the world. “I fully support the audits and transpa- rency. I think that’s all good, because there is some crazy stuff,” Don Bacon, a Repub- lican congressman from Nebraska, says of DOGE. “I just find that they’re being rash, and then they're having to backtrack when they realise, ‘Hey, the programme, maybe it was needed.” Mr Bacon suggests that Republicans will soon enough reassert their power of the purse during the upcom- ing budget negotiations. Many Republican lawmakers and their staff make a similar case, but DOGE offi- cials have relatively limited contact with Capitol Hill. As for Republicans’ relative silence about the shutdown of pro-democ- racy programmes, even foreign-policy hawks simply don't think NED is a hill worth dying on and prefer to privately Agriculture Ee-I-ee-I no! LARNED, KANSAS push for the restoration of funding. Fundamentally the fight isn’t about the deficit; at issue is around 0.02% of discre- tionary spending. It harkens back to a deeper philosophical struggle that has roiled the right for decades. Dan Fried, a NED board member and diplomat during the cold war, recalls the split in the anti- communist camp between realists and pro-democracy officials. “There was a sense that you were going to wreck detente if you supported Soviet dissidents and that Solidarity and the dis- sidents inside Poland were either doomed to lose or destabilising, but in no case worth investing in, Mr Fried explains. “But look what happened...you stand with your democratic ideals that turn out not to be charity, but a very canny and successful policy. And we are, in some sense, back to that debate.” But it takes two sides to have a debate, and for now the only one speak- ing up is winning. Donald Trump’s foreign-aid cuts threaten his rural voters HE TALLEST structures in Pawnee ‘LT county, Kansas are the grain elevators. They loom over the cows, the low-slung buildings and the occasional oil-pump jacks that litter western Kansas. In the basement of the county co-op, a collective that purchases locally grown sorghum, wheat, corn and soyabeans to sell to bigger buyers, several farmers sit around a table and wax lyrical about working in the fields. “The smell of dirt, the smell of rain, the sunrise and sunsets,’ says Jerrod Smith, “it’s a pretty beautiful thing to do.” But there is trouble in Pawnee County, and it is emanating from an unlikely source: President Donald [rump, who won the county by 52 points in November. Mr Trump’s mission to dismantle the federal bureaucracy has already touched Kansas farmers, who are struggling with low com- modity prices, drought and inflation. A big shock has come from the shut- down of the United States Agency for In- ternational Development (USAID) Tearing down USAID may have seemed like a savvy place to launch an assault on the federal bureaucracy, since foreign aid is unpopular and aimed abroad. But USAID has a do- mestic rural constituency. The food it gives away is grown by American farmers who, in a troubled farm economy, depend on the government to be a consistent customer. The backlash to USAID’s demise in middle America presents a test for the new administration: will it enforce budget cuts even when some of Mr lrump’s most ar- dent supporters are affected? Agriculture subsidies offer an early measure of how far the president and Congress will go this year as they seek more than $1trn in cuts to federal expenditures. Other programmes on the chopping block—particularly Med- DOGE will have that pot of gold, too United States 721 icaid, a federally funded health care pro- gramme for poor people—also have impor- tant constituencies in red states. Kansas has long been a font of Ameri- ca’s charitable food exports. In 1954 Presi- dent Dwight Eisenhower (a Kansan) signed a law establishing what became Food for Peace, a programme that donated American farm surplus to hungry people abroad. In 1966 senator Bob Dole (another Kansan) expanded the scheme. Chris Tan- ner, president of the Kansas Association of Wheat Growers, keeps a framed USAID wheat bag hanging in his oftice. “We have plenty, and there’s really no reason for any- one to go hungry at night,” he says. Because of the way agriculture supply chains work, individual farmers often don’t know where their crops end up. [hey sell to co-ops or grain elevators, which may sell to multinationals or the government for ex- port. But “if we go a few years without food assistance people will be surprised how their sales decline”, warns one furloughed USAID worker. The federal government al- located $1.7bn for Food for Peace in 2023, which went towards farms—but also to truckers and barge operators that get com- modities to ports. Kansas accounts for 57% of American sorghum production, almost all for export. The loss of USAID means one less big customer. Kim Barnes, the co-op’s chief financial officer, is cold-calling po- tential clients to find new markets. “A co- op went under last year,” he says, and he predicts several more will close this year, causing local farmers to lose their equity. USAID also funded 19 labs at universi- ties for crop research which helped devel- op new markets. “I had to fire everyone,” says Peter Goldsmith, who ran the soya- bean lab at the University of Illinois. Sever- al lab directors argue that the cuts will sab- otage American agriculture in the long run >> 22 United States as China fills that research vacuum. Beyond USAID, cuts to the Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) conservation ser- vice could leave farmers with deep holes in their pockets. Some growers in Pawnee County upgraded to drip rather than flood irrigation, thinking that they would be re- imbursed by the government, says Jed Fleske, a member of the county conserva- tion board. Now that money may not ar- rive. Meanwhile, farmers fret about poten- tial tariffs and a labour shortage if deporta- tions of field workers ramp up. The gutting of USAID will also reveal the influence, or lack thereof, of the farm lobby. Agribusiness firms donated $75m to Republican candidates during the 2024 election cycle, roughly double what they spent on Democrats. [Their pleas have pushed Kansas lawmakers to try to move Food for Peace into USDA, in the expecta- tion that the department will maintain the status quo. Brooke Rollins, Mr Trump's ag- riculture secretary, told /he Economist that “decisions that were made that compro- mise especially our ranchers and our farm- ers are all under review”. So the farmers of Pawnee County are optimistic that their pain will be temporary. “Once they get through figuring out where all the fraud is, I expect a lot of these conservation pro- grammes to come back,” says Mr Fleske. If not, he adds, “it’s gonna hurt”. & Public health Vax populi AUSTIN In Texas, vaccine activists are ascendant N THE OIL TOWNS of west Texas a mea- Lotes outbreak is spreading. At least 58 people have been infected and 13 are in hospital, the biggest surge in Texas in 30 years. Health officials reckon hundreds more cases have yet to be detected. Gaines County, where the flare-up began, had the state’s third-highest share of children ex- empt from measles and other vaccines for religious or philosophical reasons last year. In the decade to 2023 the rate of school- children without the recommended jabs there more than doubled, from 7% to 18%. But rather than addressing an incipient public-health crisis, Texas legislators meeting in Austin, the state capital, are de- bating new laws to relax vaccine rules, urged on by Texans for Vaccine Choice (TFVC). On February 18th activists in “Come and Make Me” shirts took to the Capitol to lobby and celebrate. As many as 45 vaccine-related bills have been intro- duced in the first month of the legislative TEXANS CALL ; ge THE SHOTS * TEXANS Needling the legislature session and 37 of them are anti-vaccine, ac- cording to the Immunisation Partnership, a non-profit. Two especially worry public- health experts: one would make it easier for parents to exempt their children from school mandates and the other would give politicians, rather than health officials, control over which are required. Austin’s moment comes as Robert F. Kennedy junior, a vaccine sceptic, is taking charge as America’s health secretary. If such an appointment had been made two years ago “you would have thought we were crazy , Says Chip Roy, a congressman allied with the demonstrators. In the states, grassroots movements ride on the convictions of people like Carrie Bigford, the outreach director for TFVC. Her friend Kristin’s baby died suddenly after being vaccinated. The hospital said the shots were blameless and there is no contrary ev- idence. But on the day after what would have been the child’s second birthday Kris- tin killed herself. ‘Twenty years on Ms Big- ford is committed to “medical freedom’. She believes that vaccines pose intolerable risks. Even Botox goes through more rigor- ous clinical trials, she contends, falsely. To achieve herd immunity for the eight primary diseases doctors vaccinate against, roughly 95% of the population must be immunised. Last year the share of five-year-olds entering classrooms fully vaccinated dropped below 93% nationally. Populous Texas is at 94% but would fall further if some of the proposed bills pass. Between 2013 and 2023 the share of kinder- garteners who got the measles jab fell in 29 states (see map). Because vaccine sceptics tend to cluster in neighbourhoods, the risk of outbreaks is higher yet. Before the covid-19 pandemic TFVC ac- tivists had to whisper in the halls of the Texas Capitol, says Rebecca Hardy, their The Economist February 22nd 2025 te X > leader. But in 2020, as people took to the internet to learn about getting jabbed, scepticism snowballed. By then the Texas mums had made rich and influential Re- publican friends and today they have law- makers lining up to back them. For a long time Americans were more receptive to vaccines than Europeans; a decade ago the French were the most distrusting, accord- ing to research by the Vaccine Confidence Project. Now most of the world’s anti-vac- cine digital content comes from America. Heidi Larson, the Vaccine Confidence Project’s founder, reckons that the move- ment could have been stymied a decade ago with a stronger dose of empathy. “The medical community hardened these moth- ers’ views because we weren't listening, she says. Ms Bigford admits that trauma fuelled her vaccine anxieties. Had more people taken her fears seriously back then she would not be an activist today. Ml Choice outbreaks Share of kindergarteners vaccinated against measles, 2013-23", percentage-point change Sh) sas Sate ast — 2 tee ae 2 | Sil C1 Not available wi wa Ew wo Ee oe ME wy vt i NY MA — CT RI *ochool years beginning Source: Centres for Disease Control and Prevention The Economist February 22nd 2025 School daze Inattentive medicine Why so many American children are diagnosed with ADHD EW THINGS agitate Robert F. Kennedy F jonior America’s new health secretary, more than the rate of attention-deficit hy- peractivity disorder (ADHD) among Amer- ican children. And for good reason: one in nine children aged 3-17 years has been di- agnosed with ADHD, two to three times the rate in other Western countries. On February 13th, Mr Kennedy’s first day in of- fice, President Donald Trump put him in charge of a special commission tasked with working out, in the next 100 days, why so many American children have ADHD and other chronic conditions. There are reasons to worry that the commission will miss the mark. Its terms of reference mirror Mr Kennedy’s beliefs. He blames ADHD on the rampant use of chemicals by America’s food industry. While there is scientific evidence that arti- ficial food colours can worsen some ADHD symptoms in children, their role is margin- al. The actual reason why America is an outlier is widespread over-diagnosis. A typical ADHD diagnosis in America 1s done by a paediatrician or a family doctor in an office visit as brief as 15 minutes. The norm in Europe is an hours-long assess- ment by a psychiatrist. The difference has to do with America’s scant health-insur- ance coverage for mental health care and lax rules about who can diagnose ADHD. Lots of corners are cut in those 15 minutes. A full ADHD assessment that follows psy- chiatric guidelines entails cognitive tests of the child, detailed interviews of parents and teachers and even observing the child in the classroom. This helps to rule out other causes for ADHD-like behaviour. Of- ten, it is a child’s normal reaction to a cha- otic home or classroom. Fresh evidence of specious diagnoses landed in December, in a study published by the National Bureau of Economic Re- search. It found that ADHD diagnoses in America spike by 14% on Halloween com- pared to the ten weekdays before or after that. It is easy to guess why—the children were examined on the one very exciting day when you get to wear a fun costume and collect bucketloads of candy. Joel Nigg, a psychiatrist at Oregon Health and Science University, says that in his clinical practice he sees many cases that look like ADHD on the surface but, once fully evalu- ated, turn out to be something else (anxi- ety ora learning disability, for example). Doctors are not alone in over-diagnos- | | Privileged access United States, public high-school“ students with ADHD accommodations*, 2021-22, % Average Richest 10% Poorest 10% Income decile* “Excluding alternative, charter, magnet and special-ed schools *504 designations that help students with disabilities learn inthe classroom *By median income ot school district Sources: Department of Education; Census Bureau ing ADHD. Ina study in 2020, 10% of Amer- icans rated their children high on a scale of ADHD symptoms, compared with 3-4% of Swedish and Norwegian parents. Cogni- tive tests showed that the American par- ents over-reported ADHD symptoms by a wide margin; the Swedish and Norwegian parents were generally accurate. America’s ethos of “school achievement above all else” is part of the problem, says Stephen Hinshaw of the University of Cal- ifornia at Berkeley. It does not help that Americans are bombarded with advertise- ments for ADHD drugs. Only America and New Zealand allow direct prescription- United States 23 drug advertising to consumers. All too often, however, the push for ADHD diagnoses comes from schools. Ac- countability rules can incentivise them to get ADHD diagnoses for poor-performing students: they can place children with ADHD into special-education classes and exclude their test results from reporting. Dr Hinshaw and others have found that ADHD rates are higher in states with more stringent accountability rules, especially for poor children. In Louisiana and Missis- sippi, poor states and early adopters of school accountability, one in six children has been diagnosed with ADHD. At the same time, rich American par- ents and the competitive schools where they enroll their children have been tempt- ed to exploit school accommodations for ADHD, such as extra time on exams. This shows up in the data for the so-called “504 designation’, a disability category for stu- dents who are expected to learn as much as other students, with certain accommoda- tions (their test scores are included in the school average). An analysis by /he Econo- mist found that 8.6% of secondary-school students in the most affluent areas have a 504 designation, compared to 1.4% of stu- dents in the poorest areas (see chart). What would the ADHD rate in America be if children were diagnosed properly? According to a study of 12,000 American children published in 2022 by Dr Nigg and his colleagues, 9% of children would be ca- tegorised as having ADHD based solely on parents’ answers about symptoms. If both parents’ and teachers’ ratings were re- quired, only about 5% of the children would have ADHD. When the researchers went further, taking into account standar- dised scales that show how far behaviour is from that typical for a child’s age, the ADHD rate dropped to 3.5%—falling in line with that in other Western countries. & 24 United States The Economist February 22nd 2025 LEXINGTON The chient For this president, the more governinent lawyers who resign over their own scruples, the better W a EMIL BOVE, the acting deputy attorney-general, set off an avalanche of resignations in the Department of Justice (DoJ) by demanding this month that prosecutors suspend their corruption case against New York’s mayor, Eric Adams, he said he was worried it would keep Mr Adams from devoting his “full at- tention” to Donald Trump’s priorities of fighting illegal immigra- tion and crime. If that was Mr Bove’s concern, his move backfired. Four of Mr Adams’s eight deputy mayors, including the one in charge of public safety, have since resigned. New York’s governor is weighing whether to dismiss the mayor. Mr Bove’s order has proved at least as big a distraction as the prosecution ever was. And yet Mr Bove’s order has served the larger purposes of Mr Trump, whom he once represented as a criminal defence attor- ney. For Richard Nixon, it was a disaster when his attorney-gener- al, Elliot Richardson, resigned rather than carry out an order he believed to be unethical, to fire the special prosecutor investigat- ing Watergate. Richardson’s resignation marked the beginning of the end of Nixon’s presidency. But if historians choose to note the present upheaval at the Department of Justice, they are likely to view it as just the end of the beginning of Mr Trump’s new admin- istration, as the episode that made clear he would encounter no serious political opposition to his project to re-engineer the De- partment of Justice as a mechanism for achieving his objectives. The resignations, of eight prosecutors so far, rid him of lawyers who might resist other directives and opened slots for loyalists while signalling, and reinforcing, his dominance of his party. What has changed since the time of Watergate? Not the law. Then as now, the Supreme Court recognised that the president had “unrestricted power” to remove top officials, and that the ex- ecutive branch had “exclusive authority and absolute discretion” to decide what cases to prosecute. What has changed, profoundly, is America’s political culture. At least two of the prosecutors who resigned were, like Rich- ardson, Republicans with admirable records of public service. Danielle Sassoon, the acting US attorney for the Southern District of New York, was first to make a dignified, principled exit, after dismantling Mr Bove’s arguments and writing she could not “in good faith defend” his position. A member of the Federalist Soci- ety, Ms Sassoon had clerked for conservative luminaries, includ- ing Justice Antonin Scalia. Next to resign was another prosecutor on the case, Hagan Scotten, a former clerk for Chief Justice John Roberts and a Special Forces veteran who was awarded two Bronze stars. While noting he was no critic of the Trump adminis- tration, Mr Scotten wrote to Mr Bove, “No system of ordered liber- ty can allow the Government to use the carrot of dismissing char- ges, or the stick of threatening to bring them again, to induce an elected official to support its policy objectives.” Richardson supported Nixon and hoped to be president him- self someday. But firing the prosecutor meant violating his moral code. In their last meeting in the Oval Office, Nixon tried to lever- age Richardson’s sense of duty, saying it was a shame he would not put the public interest first. Richardson replied, “I can only say that I believe my resignation is in the public interest.” Enough Re- publicans, including in Congress, saw Richardson’s act as honour- able to precipitate a crisis for Nixon. Today, Republicans who crit- icised President Joe Biden as “weaponising” the Do] regard any suggestion that Mr [rump is doing just that as dishonourable. It’s not that integrity no longer matters; it’s that their definition of in- tegrity has changed, from fidelity to principles to fidelity to lead- ers. “Your oath to uphold the Constitution does not permit you to substitute your policy judgment for that of the President or senior leadership of the Justice Department,” Mr Bove wrote in accepting Ms Sassoon’s resignation. Denying any bargain with Mr Adams, Mr Bove accused her of pursuing a “politically motivated prosecu- tion” and said the Justice Department would investigate her. Philip Lacovara, who was the counsel to the Watergate special prosecutor, says he and others in the office were inclined to follow Richardson out the door. But Robert Bork, the DoJ official who ul- timately carried out Nixon’s order, assured him that their investi- gation into Watergate would continue. “By contrast, [rump’s AG and Deputy AG have made it impossible to continue to investigate or prosecute anyone who has done a deal with Trump for protec- tion,” he wrote in an email. “Moreover, a feckless Congress is co- wering before [rump and offering no protection for the rule of law.” He added, “The current depredations are far worse than any- thing that we had to address during the Watergate affair.” First kill all the lawyers On February 18th, the top criminal prosecutor in the US attorney's office in Washington, DC also quit, apparently also over a direc- tive from Mr Bove, this time to freeze spending authorised under Mr Biden. Dispensing with such lawyers is vital to Mr Trump's project. In remarks revealed by the investigative news outlet Pro- Publica, Russell Vought, Mr Trump’s director of the Office of Management and Budget, once lamented how, when he served in the same role during Mr Trump’s first term, government lawyers would say “you can’t do that” because it was against the law. “I don’t want President Trump having to lose a moment of time hav- ing fights in the Oval Office about whether something is legal or doable or moral,’ Mr Vought said. Mr Vought appears to regard this as necessary because of a “Marxist takeover” of the government. It is a curious inversion, or projection: Vladimir Lenin rejected the idea of an apolitical civil service, and the Bolsheviks built a one-party state that prized loy- alty over merit and individual scruples. Over the long haul, this ap- proach is not likely to work out for America, either. The Economist February 22ndq 2025 20 A dead cow comes alive NEUQUEN Argentina's shale fields are booming, to Javier Milei’s delight N A DUSTY desert in north-west Patago- Dia a hulking rig is busy drilling. After plunging 3km underground, its drill turns and chomps horizontally for the same dis- tance again. In Neuquen, the nearest city, boffins crunch data from the rig and keep its drill trained on an oil-rich sliver of shale, just five metres thick. Nearly 40 of these machines dot Vaca Muerta (“Dead Cow”), a vast shale patch in Argentina. The formation stretches from the Andes to the outskirts of Neuquen, where its dark layers peek through the sand. Argentina holds the world’s fourth- largest reserves of shale oil and more shale gas than anywhere except China. Argen- tines started tapping Vaca Muerta around a decade ago. Production grew steadily. Then, a few years ago, it exploded. In 2024 Argentina exported more energy than it imported for the first time in 14 years. This year Argentina is set to overtake Colombia, which produced nearly 800,000 barrels per day (b/d) last autumn, as South America’s third-biggest crude-oil produc- er. Only Venezuela, which produces nearly im b/d, and Brazil, which produces more than 3m b/d, will pump more. Javier Milei, Argentina's libertarian president, calls Va- ca Muerta a “panacea” and wants the coun- try’s energy exporters to thrive. If they do, they could fuel his efforts to turn around decades of economic decline. Argentina’s shale business faced steep odds. Drillers swoon over Vaca Muerta’s geology, likening it to the United States’ richest formations. But as Vinicius Moraes of Wood Mackenzie, an energy-advisory 26 Milei’s crypto clanger 28 Reckoning with dictatorship firm, explains, “Argentina is a different beast.” Oil-price controls, export taxes and capital restrictions long made it hard to do business. Those policies, along with age- ing conventional wells, caused oil produc- tion to wane during the 2000s. And in 2012 the decision by Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, then Argentina’s president, to nationalise YPF—an energy company owned by Repsol, a Spanish firm— spooked investors. still, enough money made its way into Argentina to foster a burgeoning shale business. Miguel Galuccio, who ran YPF from 2012 to 2016, persuaded foreign firms—including Chevron, an oil major— to invest in joint ventures. [hat may be partly because of the characteristics of shale drilling. As Francisco Monaldi of Rice University in Texas points out, shale production has low initial costs (com- pared, say, with setting up a big offshore operation), but needs sustained invest- ment to drill new wells and keep produc- tion growing. Nationalising a shale project makes little sense for a cash-strapped gov- ernment. “It’s like expropriating a carmak- ing company, says Mr Monaldi. “It’s great at first, but the next day you have to work out how to keep making cars.” For that reason, risk-conscious inves- tors were willing to invest gradually. Over >) 26 = The Americas the past decade, shale-oil production has risen from around 20,000 b/d to nearly 450,000 b/d. Gas production has soared, too (see chart). YPF, alongside local drillers like Vista Energy (which Mr Galuccio now runs), has spurred more recent growth. “When we said Vaca Muerta could double production in five years, people thought we were crazy, says Daniel Dreizzen, a for- mer secretary for energy planning. Most analysts now reckon Vaca Muerta can pro- duce more than im b/d by 2030. The boom has transformed Neuquen. Vaca Muerta had been home to some con- ventional drilling since 1918. But by the mid-2000s output was falling. Shale gave Neuquen’s older oilmen a second shot and still draws new workers to the city each week. Gustavo Medele, the energy minister for Neuquen province, says a lorry driver can earn the equivalent of $3,000 a month (roughly double the average national monthly salary). Not everyone is happy. Some locals worry about the water used to break up compact shale formations. A mu- ral near the city centre, showing a fire-spit- ting rig next to a river, declares: “Water is worth more than oil.” Mooing for the moolah Such criticism understates shale’s rewards. The boom could transform Argentina’s economy. Estimates suggest that the shale business could help create between a quar- ter and half a million jobs by the early 2030s. Widening the country’s trade sur- plus would replenish its meagre foreign- currency reserves, helping it pay its debts. Aleph Energy, a consultancy that Mr Dreizzen now runs, reckons that hydrocar- bon exports could bring more than $30bn into Argentina every year from 2030. That would go a long way towards widening Ar- gentina’s total trade surplus. Energy ex- ports helped push it to $19bn in 2024, the highest figure in years. Mr Milei’s reforms have already made business easier. Since last year, companies have no longer been obliged to reserve a certain level of supply for local refiners be- fore they can export. The government has also stopped intervening in the oil market, letting the price of oil sold locally rise clos- er to that of Brent crude, the global bench- mark. Shalemen long for the end of Argen- tina’s capital controls, which would make it easier to import kit and attract more for- elgn investment. But removing those is slower work. Foreign cash will help Argentine ex- porters tackle their most pressing pro- blem: infrastructure. Last year’s energy surplus was achieved by delivering gas to Chile, running oil pipelines at full tilt and sending the remaining barrels out of Vaca Muerta by lorry. An extra oil pipeline, due to open soon, will offer more capacity to send exports to Puerto Rosales, a city on the coast. Exporters are also ramping up gas supplies to Brazil, using old pipelines via Bolivia. But markets in neighbouring countries remain small compared with those in Asia and Europe. And so to increase exports significant- ly, Argentina is looking farther afield. Sev- eral projects are under way, supported by tax breaks and other incentives that Mr Mi- lei has carved out for big infrastructure in- vestments. YPF, alongside other compa- nies, is building an oil pipeline to carry 550,000 b/d to Punta Colorada, where a deep-water port will receive bigger tankers. The firm also wants to ship liquefied natural gas (LNG) to Asia, where demand is expected to keep growing until at least the 2040s. The cost of the necessary infra- structure is immense, at some $5obn. But YPF, which has signed a deal to develop it with Shell, a British-Dutch major, is deter- mined. Horacio Marin, its boss, has been touring Asia in search of orders; on January 21st three Indian companies said they were interested in taking shipments. Two things could derail Argentina’s progress, warns Mr Dreizzen. First, the coming wave of oil and gas production in the United States may push prices down, making LNG projects in particular less profitable and leaving Argentine produc- ers with little room to compete. Second, if the country ended up in another economic crisis, foreign investors could panic. That would make expanding the country’s ex- port infrastructure an even harder task. Milking Vaca Muerta for all it’s worth will not be easy. But it is already transforming the country. @ Dead cow, dynamic drilling Argentina, oil and gas production Crude oil, barrels per day, 000 Shale and other - Conventional 2000 05 10 15 2 ee Natural gas, cubic metres per day, m Shale and other aS 200 Conventional 2000 0S 10 15 20 24 Source: Aleph | nergy The Economist February 22nd 2025 Argentina's crypto cock-up A presidential misadventure Worse than embarrassing? cy’s first big scandal. On February 14th he posted on X, a social-media service, in praise of a cryptocurrency called $LIBRA, saying it would fund “small companies and Argentine ven- tures”. 'housands of people bought in over the next hour. [he price surged from 21 cents at the time of Mr Milei’s post to peak at $5.54, then collapsed. Most investors lost their shirts. Mr Milei deleted his post. By February 17th more than 100 criminal complaints had been filed against him alleging fraud. Argentina’s opposition party was call- ing for his impeachment. The president has tried to distance himself from the project, insisting that his post did not constitute an endorse- ment. He has said he acted in good faith and was “not familiar with the details”. Awkwardly, his office says he routinely endorses businesses. One of $LIBRA’s backers, a marke- teer called Hayden Davis, was part of a team that launched a cryptocurrency promoted by Melania Irump, Amer- ica’s First Lady, in January. [hat coin lost 90% of its value within days. On February 15th Mr Davis called himself “Javier Milei’s adviser” and said that he was “working with him and his team”. Mr Milei’s office has said the govern- ment has no connection to Mr Davis. This was not Mr Milei’s first brush with crypto controversy. In 2021 he promoted a company called CoinX World on Instagram. It was later shut down by Argentine regulators. It seems that insiders may have profited from prior knowledge of Mr Milei’s post. According to the Buenos Aires Herald, one wallet bought $1m of the coin at the exact moment of Mr Milei’s post. The wallet sold 45 minutes later, netting a profit of $8.5m. The president may have been em- ulating his idol, Donald Trump, who launched a cryptocurrency in January (its value also cratered). Mr Milei has also followed Mr Trump’s lead in an- nouncing Argentina’s withdrawal from the World Health Organisation. He is mulling leaving the Paris climate ac- cords. The $LIBRA saga shows that not all MAGA mimicry is a sure bet. Joys MILEI is facing his presiden- 7 Pre. i” i 4, yy a . re, 4, %. ' cities, one e datapoint © i a time A new initiative from Economist Impact, Urban Futures explores the novel insights required for building sustainable, resilient cities. Discover the tuture of urban development through informative research, expert thought-leadership and intelligent debate, to leverage new ideas that transtorm how we live and work. impact.economist.com/urban-futures Urban Futures is supported by the following organisations Qu mwssex ]@D @zwazcu UN-HABITAT Economist Impact, a commercial arm of The Economist Group, works with organisations globally to further their mission and catalyse progress. Economist Impact operates independently of [he Economist. 28 The Americas Brazil's dictatorship No more smiling SAO PAULO An Oscar-nominated film sparks a reckoning with Brazil's history of dictatorship Ta THE end of “I’m Still Here’, a Brazilian film set during the country’s military dictatorship, a photographer tells his subjects—a woman and her five chil- dren—not to smile. The father of the fam- ily, Rubens Paiva, has been “disappeared” by the dictatorship, and the photogra- phers editor wants a suitably sad image. They defy the editor and flash toothy grins. The scene captures Brazil's approach to the legacy of its dictatorship, which ruled from 1964 to 1985. Unlike in Argentina, Chile and Uruguay, no one has been sent to jail for crimes committed by the regime. Brazil has, so far, been content to move on in the name of stability and democracy. “T’m Still Here” came out in November and is already one of the most-watched films in Brazilian history. It is also the first South American film to be nominated for best picture at the Oscars. Fernanda lor- res, who plays the stoical lead, is in the run- ning for best actress. Walter Salles, the di- rector, says he wanted to “tell a story that felt essential” at a time of democratic back- sliding, to bring Brazil out of its “amnesia”. It seems to be working; the film is spurring a new reckoning with Brazil’s violent past. The film follows Paiva’s family as they deal with his disappearance. The left-wing congressman was ousted after the coup in 1964. 1n 1971 regime thugs hauled him away from his home in Rio de Janeiro for ques- tioning. He never came back. For decades the army pushed a story that Paiva had es- caped them and joined a guerrilla group. In 2014 a national truth commission pub- lished evidence that he had been tortured to death under interrogation. Five retired officers were charged with killing him and hiding his body. None of the officers have been tried. Three have died of old age. Across South America, military leaders accepted the transition to democracy only after securing amnesties for themselves, amnesties which also protected their of- ten-violent opponents. In Argentina, Chile and Uruguay pardons for the dictatorship were eventually annulled, or exceptions made to try the worst offenders. Brazil’s Supreme Court upheld its amnesty in 2010. The differences, says Marina Franco of the National University of San Martin in Buenos Aires, are down to the relative bru- tality of the regimes, and their power at the point of transition to democracy. Argenti- na’s dictatorship was particularly violent and disorderly; over seven years the junta “disappeared” as many as 30,000 people, oversaw economic chaos and lost the Falk- lands war. This spurred Argentina’s hu- man-rights movement, the region's stron- gest. Over 1,000 people have been sen- tenced for the junta’s crimes. Chile’s regime was also bloody, but the success of Augusto Pinochet’s economic reforms helped him keep power for 17 years and shape the constitution. Justice there has been slower. Uruguayans have re- jected referendums on overturning their amnesty, but the courts have sent those in- volved in the worst crimes to jail. Brazil's regime was the least savage, though at least 434 people were killed and thousands tortured. [he army let a bud- ding left-wing movement thrive. Winning the football World Cup in i970 boosted the mood of the country overall, as did the booming economy in that decade. For years after 1985, Brazil upheld its amnesty. Justice revisited The success of “I’m Still Here” is leading Brazilians to rethink their clemency. Regis- try offices have begun updating death cer- tificates for those disappeared by the state to reflect the real causes of their death. On February 14th the official commission which looks into political killings and dis- appearances said it might re-examine the death of Juscelino Kubitschek, a former president who died in suspicious circum- stances in 1976. On the same day, Brazil’s Meet the Paivas The Economist February 22nd 2025 Supreme Court started deliberating on whether the amnesty should apply in Pai- vas case and that of two other disappeared dissidents, or whether this conflicts with human-rights treaties Brazil has signed. Brazil's attitude to dictatorship is newly relevant. On January 8th 2023 supporters of Jair Bolsonaro, then Brazil’s outgoing president, attacked government buildings in an attempt to keep him in power after he lost an election that he falsely claimed was rigged against him. Mr Bolsonaro’s allies in Congress are now trying to pass an amnes- ty for all involved. Police reports released in November describe alleged plans by confidants of Mr Bolsonaro to murder the current president and vice-president be- fore they could assume office, plus a Su- preme Court judge. The reports state that Mr Bolsonaro, who has long praised the dictatorship, edited a draft decree declar- ing a state of emergency and annulling the election. The effort failed after two of the armed forces’ three commanders rejected it. On February 18th Brazil's attorney-gen- eral officially charged Mr Bolsonaro with plotting a coup to remain in power. Mr Bol- sonaro denies wrongdoing and says he is suffering political persecution. Mr Bolsonaro also has personal beef with the Paiva family (pictured). He grew up in the same town as Paiva, whose father was a wealthy landowner. When a bust of Paiva was installed in Congress in 2014, Mr Bolsonaro, then a representative, spat on it in front of the family. Marcelo Rubens Pai- va, Paiva’s son, claims the resentment stems from “class hatred”. A biography of Mr Bolsonaro written by one of his chil- dren lists grudges against the family, such as never being invited to swim in their pool and that the children ate expensive ice lol- lies. “I’m Still Here” is a rebuke not only to Brazil’s past, but also to the leading dema- gogue of its present. & The Economist February 22nd 2025 Vessel states ULSAN AND WASHINGTON, DC Serre Can iia ir: Fayre ae = se | oe va Only Asia can help America counter China’s shipbuilding prowess A: THE ULSAN shipyard on the south- eastern coast of South Korea, vessels are assembled like Lego. Hulking cranes stack huge blocks of bent steel, which are then notched together into a seamless Whole. HD Hyundai Heavy Industries (HHI), which owns the yard, has perfected this art. As the world’s largest shipyard, Ul- san produces 40-50 modern ships every year, from gas tankers to destroyers. Ship- builders like HHI are key to a crucial arena of competition between America and Chi- na in the Indo-Pacific. While America’s shipbuilding industry has sunk, China's has steamed ahead to be- come the world’s largest. Chinese ship- builders account for over 50% of all mer- chant tonnage produced globally, up from 5% in the late 1990s. America’s make just 0.1%. China's naval shipbuilding capacity is now more than 230 times greater than America’s; its navy has more ships than any other in the world. The size of America’s naval fleet has decreased by half since the end of the cold war. “We thought, “Oh, the end of history, we don’t need this any- more,” says Brent Sadler of the Heritage Foundation, an American think-tank. America’s allies in East Asia could help counter the Chinese build-up. South Korea and Japan are home to the world's second- and third-largest shipbuilding industries, accounting respectively for 28% and 15% of global production. Shipyards there have cutting-edge technology. The firms that run them built industrial clusters with ro- bust supply chains: Ulsan is also home to 30 The importance of rural roads 31 India’s fighter-jet choice 32 Political turmoil in Singapore — Banyan is away 29 the world’s largest ship engine-maker. Shipyards in South Korea and Japan are “21st-century’ enterprises, Mike Waltz, America’s national security adviser, said in September when still a congressman from Florida. “You go to some of ours—it looks like it hasn't changed since the 1930s.” Officials around the region are keen to work with America. Doing so is good busi- ness for their industries, and potential in- vestments in American shipyards could also be good politics. In recent years Amer- ica has grown more open to the idea. Last year Joe Biden’s secretary of the navy, Car- los Del loro, visited the Ulsan yard, along with others in South Korea and Japan. A fo- cus on shipbuilding may be an area of con- tinuity with President Donald [rump’s ad- ministration, even with America’s more protectionist turn. On the first call be- tween Mr [rump and South Korea's presi- dent, shipbuilding was a big topic. (Shares of South Korean shipbuilders such as HHI jumped afterwards.) But to fully unlock the potential, pro- tectionist laws that limit where America builds and repairs its ships need to be re- vised. The Jones Act has, since the 1920s, mandated that all American domestic mar- itime cargo travel on ships that are Amer- ican-built, owned, flagged and operated. Naval procurement rules prevent acquiring warships from overseas (at least without a 30. «Asia presidential waiver) and limit the kinds of repairs that can be done at foreign yards. Any changes are politically fraught. How America handles the tension between two competing imperatives—the need to work with allies to counter China, and the desire to protect domestic industries—will help determine the balance of maritime power. Allied shipbuilding collaboration could take several forms. One is enticing indus- trial behemoths in South Korea and Japan to help revive American shipyards. Last year Hanwha, another big South Korean conglomerate, bought Philly Shipyard, an ageing facility in Pennsylvania, the first such investment by a South Korean firm. Mr Del ‘Toro hailed the acquisition as “game-changing”. Other Asian shipbuild- ers are exploring similar moves. Yet getting outdated American ship- yards up to scratch will take “lots of invest- ment and lots of time’, says Jeong Woo- maan of HHI. Without a robust commer- cial shipbuilding industry, supply chains are undeveloped. [raining workers to make advanced modern vessels takes years. “Some people think it will be world war two all over again, with Rosie the Riv- eter just taking up a wrench, says Colin Grabow of the Cato Institute, an American think-tank. “But it won’t—these are incred- ibly specialised skill sets.” America’s deci- sion to block Nippon Steel, a Japanese firm, from acquiring US Steel, an American one, will also make potential investors think twice. Another option is tapping Asian ship- yards for what is known in the trade as “MRO” (maintenance, repair and overhaul). Proponents argue that moving more MRO to friendly nations’ yards could free up American ones to focus on building new ships, and would keep American vessels closer to the theatres where they are de- ployed. Hanwha and HHI have both signed “master ship repair agreements”, which al- low them to bid for American naval jobs. Three Indian shipyards have also inked similar agreements. When Mr Biden visit- ed India in 2023, both countries committed to advancing India as “a hub for the main- tenance and repair of forward-deployed US Navy assets’. Such work tends to be limit- ed to non-combatant ships. But Japan has found ways to assuage the security con- cerns related to sensitive vessels. Japanese workers help maintain American warships deployed to bases in Japan. some hope that collaboration on MRO will eventually lead to more direct co-pro- duction. America’s entire shipbuilding in- dustry produces two destroyers annually, while HHI can produce two per year at just one of Ulsan’s ten dry docks, Mr Jeong notes. Why not have South Korea build ships for the American navy? In private, some senior American military officials salivate over the prospect. Despite this, progress has been slow. Vested interests fiercely resist change. Last year Matthew Paxton, president of the Shipbuilders Council of America, claimed that America had enough capacity to build combatant and logistics ships and to meet the navy’s maintenance needs and yet it was “looking abroad for ship mainte- nance”. “hese efforts are driving lay-offs to the very domestic workforce navy lead- ership says it wants to preserve, he wrote. After the initial rush of activity, no Ameri- can navy ship has undergone work in India since July 2023. Another stumbling block is manpower. American shipyards struggle to attract workers, while the population in both South Korea and Japan is shrinking. Blue- collar industries there already depend on foreign workers, mostly from South-East Asia: roughly 15% of South Korea’s ship- building workforce is foreign. Large-scale immigration is politically unpalatable in Rural roads All-weather friends KHAIRA VILLAGE, CHHATTISGARH The Economist February 22nd 2025 both countries. More automation can help, but a lack of labour would still limit any at- tempts to boost production. Several recent bills introduced in Amer- ica’s Congress seek to remedy some of the problems in its maritime industry. Earlier this month, two Republican senators from land-locked Utah introduced legislation that would make it possible to build naval ships and their components in the ship- yards of treaty allies. The Shipbuilding and Harbour Infra- structure for Prosperity and Security Act, a bipartisan bill introduced last December that aims to revitalise American shipbuild- ing, stands a much better chance of pass- ing. “But it is fundamentally a strategy of American renewal—there’s not much about allies and partners,” says Peter Lee of the Asan Institute, a think-tank in South Korea. “It’s not a two-player game, the sooner America wakes up to that, the faster they can address the challenge.” @ India’s other, little-known infrastructure revolution HE NEW road runs 1.85km (1.14 miles) to Khaira, a village of around 1,000 people in central India that seems straight out of an idealised depiction of rural life. Blue-uniformed pupils eat lunch in the grounds of the middle school, some offer- ing their leftovers to a pair of cows outside. A dozen men drink tea under the eaves of a house, listening to a recitation of the Ka- mayana blaring from a temple loudspeaker. Until recently getting to Khaira from Kanharpuri, a bigger settlement, involved a roundabout route on potholed surfaces. But the new road, built at a cost of 2.9m ru- pees ($33,000) and completed in June, has Path dependent India, selected roads built, '0QOO0km a 60 ~)Ruralroads _ . |i programme | | | 30 ® Highways Wt eI ZUU GD 10 15 20 24 Years ending March 31st Sources: Ministry of Koad Iransport and Highways; Minisiry of ural Development; CMIT made the commute much simpler, says Gi- ta, ascience teacher who travels from Kan- harpuri on a scooter. Since the turn of the century, and espe- cially in the past decade under Narendra Modi, the prime minister, India has rapidly expanded its road connectivity. [he na- tional-highway network nearly tripled in length from 52,000okm in 2000 to over 146,000km last year, adding an average of around 3,900km a year. Less well-known is the infrastructure revolution in the coun- tryside. In 2000 India had just 545,000km of surfaced rural roads, usually of dubious quality. By last year, the country had added an additional 773,0o00km, at an annual av- erage of 33,500km, under one programme alone (see chart). That effort to link villages to market towns with all-weather roads, known as the Prime Minister’s Rural Roads Programme (PMGSY in the Hindi acronym), was an- nounced in 2000. It is part of an effort to narrow the huge urban-rural income gap and has been supported by every govern- ment since. Some states also run a comple- mentary chief ministers programme (MMGSY). Today the orange-and-black signboard marking a road built under the scheme is a familiar sight across India. The programme has by many measures been a success. PMGSY was rolled out on the basis of village population rather than >> The Economist February 22nd 2025 by district, connecting smaller places over time. This design created a natural control eroup, allowing researchers to compare connected and unconnected villages near each other. They found reduced travel times, increased access to transport servic- es, greater labour mobility out of agricul- ture and a slight rise in consumption. Pu- pils stayed in school longer. Rural roads also improved life for wom- en. A study by Bharti Nandwani and Punar- jit Roychowdhury, both development economists, found fewer women needing permission to leave their homes and lower reported rates of domestic violence. The authors suggest that exposure to the world outside the village may have spurred changes in “the perception about the ap- propriate role of women in society”. Shilpa Aggarwal of the Indian School of Business (ISB) in Hyderabad found better health care for pregnant women, lower rates of miscarriage, fewer home births and higher rates of childhood vaccinations. There remain many ills that roads alone cannot solve. Women did not report in- creased bank-account ownership or prop- erty rights. Infant mortality increased, sug- gesting that better maternal care only de- layed rather than averted some deaths. Most glaringly, there is no evidence that the roads raised rural income levels. One reason may be that much of the re- search on rural roads looks at effects over the first few years of the programme—it is harder to find unconnected villages to- day—and so the full impact on income may not yet have become apparent. Anoth- er is that rural roads facilitated migration, so incomes may well have risen for the families of those who left the village, but not for the rest. Both explanations point to possible economic improvements under the surface of aggregate numbers. Passage to interior India There may be a simpler explanation, says Sam Asher, an economist at Imperial College London who has done extensive research on PMGSY: “Villages are poor, un- productive places for many reasons and in- vesting in one thing isnt going to change a lot.” Agriculture, which remains the main- stay of India’s rural economy and employs half the country’s workforce, is afflicted by lots of bad policies. A tarmac road has no chance of fixing them on its own. The programme has evolved since its inception. [he latest edition, approved late last year, aims to build another 62,500km of road by 2029. “The focus now is going to shift to maintenance and to expansion,” says Vikram Sharma of MicroSave Con- sulting, a firm based in Lucknow. Mainte- nance is badly needed. “No one comes to inspect the road,” complains Champalal Chandrapur, a farmer in Khaira, referring to an older road at the other end of the vil- lage. “The scheme is very good, but the low-level contractors are corrupt.’ Indeed, corruption at the local level is endemic across India. Some roads are built with dodgy materials or mixes. Local poli- ticians may prioritise funds for areas where they have more voters. Moreover, the ca- pacity of Indian states to absorb central funding and implement schemes varies. Money sent by officials in Delhi is some- times returned unspent. The government is adjusting the nitty-gritty of PMGSY’s policy design to ensure better oversight and maintenance, says Mr Sharma. But rural India has changed for the bet- ter thanks to the programme. “Iwenty years ago there used to be ankle-deep mud on the rough, unpaved roads,’ says Tejin- der Vaishnav, a labourer in Khaira. The scheme may not be perfect. But as Ms Ag- garwal of ISB puts it, “a road is a no-brainer. Everyone should have access to a road.” Asia 31 Air power Stealth management BANGALORE Russia and America are vying fora bumper Indian fighter-jet deal Aa ONE OF Asia's biggest air and de- fence shows, Aero India always gener- ates a buzz in the arms trade, not to men- tion the skies over Bangalore. But there was an extra frisson around this year’s event, which concluded on February 14th. One reason was the presence of Russia’s most advanced stealth fighter jet, the Su-57. This was not just its debut in India: it was appearing for the first time alongside America’s equivalent, the F-35. Then there was a two-day visit to Wash- ington by India’s prime minister, Narendra Modi, which coincided with the show. After meeting President Donald Trump on February 13th, the two leaders sought to gloss over tensions on tariffs with ambi- tious agreements to expand trade and de- fence co-operation. And, most strikingly, Mr Trump said they were “paving the way” to supply India with the F-35, which is cur- rently restricted to American allies. That only intensified manoeuvring among military officials and arms-makers in Bangalore. They had gathered there mostly to tout their wares to India, which is the world’s biggest arms importer and is steadily diversifying away from Russia as its main supplier. This year, the commer- cial and geopolitical stakes were especially high given the war in Ukraine, Mr Irump’s return to power and an anticipated Indian order for 114 fighter jets worth $20bn. The Russian and American delegations carefully avoided direct contact, but in conversations with /he Economist they readily badmouthed each other’s wares. After the Su-57’s aerobatic display, a Rus- sian delegate questioned the manoeuvra- bility of the F-35 (which only did a straight- forward flypast). America’s fighter had only been used against ill-armed “terro- tists’, the Russian quipped, whereas the Su-57 was “battle-proven” in Ukraine. Ihe Americans’ response was equally caustic. [hey pointed out that Ukraine had no real air force and suggested that the Su-57’s fancy moves had little use in mod- ern combat. They also cited the poor per- formance of many Russian weapons in Uk- raine. And they expressed confidence that India would continue the expansion of de- fence ties with America that began two de- cades ago and accelerated after a deadly clash on India’s border with China in 2020. A fighter deal would take that defence partnership to new levels. Although India has lately bought more American arms, in- >> 32 ~=Asia cluding helicopters, transport planes and drones, it has resisted buying American fighters, which would bind it into a com- plex technological ecosystem for decades. India’s most recent fighter order was for 36 French Rafales in 2016; its other fighters are mostly of Russian origin. Yet Mr Irump’s remarks also unsettled some American and Indian air-show par- ticipants. India, they explained, remains wary of becoming over-reliant on imported American arms, partly because they are ex- pensive and partly to preserve strategic au- tonomy. So India and America (as well as several other countries) have recently prio- ritised joint arms production in India. [hat also helps Mr Modi’s efforts to boost Indi- an manufacturing, thus creating jobs. Mr Trump and Mr Modi did agree to pursue “new procurements and co-produc- tion arrangements” for anti-tank missiles and infantry combat vehicles. They also welcomed new agreements to co-produce anti-drone and anti-submarine equipment. For many involved, though, the concern is that such co-production efforts will ulti- mately clash with Mr Trump’s determina- tion to reduce India’s trade surplus and create jobs in America. His F-35 offer was quite a curveball, too. The biggest Indian deal on the horizon is the 114-fighter tender, plans for which were announced in 2018. India is expected to in- vite bids in early 2025 and the contenders include two American firms, Boeing and Lockheed Martin, as well as Dassault of France, Saab of Sweden and Russia’s Unit- ed Aircraft Corporation. Hey big procurer But India has long indicated that in that deal it aims to buy a large number of af- fordable aircraft to replace much of its age- ing fleet and to ease a shortfall of some 200 fighters. It has thus been seeking fourth- generation fighters, rather than more ex- pensive fifth-generation ones like the F-35 (which boast radar-evading stealth tech- nology). And it is widely expected to de- mand that most, if not all, components of the fighters are produced in India. Besides, some American allies, which jointly developed the F-35, might object to sharing its technology with India. And In- dia is developing its own fifth-generation fighter. Hence Lockheed, which makes the F-35, has been pitching an updated version of the older F-16 for the anticipated Indian fighter tender, and offering to make much of it in India. (Boeing’s hopes rest primarily on an updated version of the F-15, also to be substantially Indian-made.) Recently, however, senior Indian air- force figures have voiced frustration with the slow pace of India’s procurement pro- cess. [hey point to China, which has alrea- dy inducted almost 200 fifth-generation fighters and offered 40 to Pakistan, India’s historical rival. Some in India’s defence cir- cles are now calling for it to rethink the 114- jet order and buy a smaller number of stealth fighters instead. Russia, meanwhile, is lobbying India to do the same. Russia’s pitch includes shar- ing much of the Su-57’s technology and al- lowing production under licence in India (which already makes Su-30s under a simi- lar deal). As for Russia’s supply-chain is- sues, its representatives say they will ease if the war in Ukraine ends. And they ques- tion America’s reliability, citing recent de- lays in the delivery of American engines Singapore's politics The Economist February 22nd 2025 for India’s indigenous fighters. It is unclear to what extent Mr Modi was on board with Mr ‘Irump’s F-35 an- nouncement, though their joint statement noted that America was reviewing its poli- cy on supplying fifth-generation fighters to India. Shortly after, a senior Indian offi- cial said it was only a proposal and any pur- chase would follow the normal procedure, which had not yet started. Even so, fighters are clearly on both leaders’ minds. And In- dia has some hard choices to make. Brace for some diplomatic aerobatics in the months ahead. Watching the watchmen SINGAPORE The leader of the opposition is convicted of lying O N FEBRUARY 17TH Pritam Singh, the leader of Singapore’s opposition, was convicted of “wilfully” lying twice to a privileges committee in 2021 and hit with the maximum fine of S$7,000 ($5,200) on each charge. The verdict caps one in a spate of scandals in the city-state’s usually dull politics. The privileges committee vets the conduct of MPs who have legal immuni- ty. [he committee, dominated by the incumbent party, had been investigating a different lie told in Parliament by a former opposition MP, Raeesah Khan. Ms Khan had falsely informed Parlia- ment in August 2021 that a rape survivor had been treated insensitively when she accompanied her to a police station. No such incident occurred. But that did not stop Ms Khan from repeating the lie in Parliament two months later, before finally coming clean in November that year. During the committee proceedings the following month, she testified that Mr Singh had instructed her to “take [the lie] to the grave” when her dishonesty first surfaced. Mr Singh maintained that he told her to do the opposite. The privi- leges committee then imposed a S$35,000 fine on Ms Khan and recom- mended that Mr Singh be investigated for lying under oath to the committee. The circumstances which led to Mr Singh’s prosecution are in many ways as novel as the charge itself. It was the first time in Singapore’s history that a poli- tician had been prosecuted under the Parliament Act. The committee could have instead opted fora simpler censure motion, used to signal dissatisfaction with parliamentarians. The verdict is a stain on the relatively clean image of Mr Singh’s party ahead of an election expected later this year. “It takes away any bragging rights that Mr Singh or his party may have had on the campaien trail,” says Eugene Tan of Singapore Management University. But the ruling party is not scandal- proof. The chair of the privileges com- mittee and former speaker of Parliament resigned after it came to light that he had had an affair with a fellow lawmaker, thus damaging his impartiality. A trans- port minister was jailed last year for corruption. They resigned their posts, while Mr Singh has not. He once mocked the government’s assertion that it did not need an opposition party to hold it to account, declaring the idea of “own- self check ownself”, in the local patois, to be unrealistic. Singaporeans will soon have a chance to signal whether they still trust Mr Singh’s party to do so. The Economist February 22nd 2025 A new Silicon Valley HANGZHOU Behind DeepSeek lies a little-known but world-leading university HUGE STATUE of Mao Zedong still A stands near the entrance to Zhejiang University, surveying the transformation of the eastern city of Hangzhou, 175km (110 miles) south-west of Shanghai. Such stat- ues look anachronistic wherever they lin- ger across China, but especially so here, and especially after the events of the past few months. The recent revolution in Hangzhou has not been a Maoist one, but a technological one. DeepSeek, the AI company whose groundbreaking models stunned foreign competitors last month, was developed in Hangzhou. It was founded by Liang Wen- feng, an alumnus of Zhe Da, as the univer- sity is known (from its Chinese name, Zhe- jiang Daxue). Zhe Da is still largely un- known outside China, but it is at the heart of a dynamic new ecosystem of researchers and entrepreneurs in the city that models itself on Calitornia’s Silicon Valley. That ecosystem came into sharp focus on February 17th, when China’s leader, Xi Jinping, met a group of tech entrepreneurs in Beijing (see Business section). Among them was Jack Ma, who founded Alibaba, an e-commerce giant, in Hangzhou in 1999, but then disappeared from view in 2020 after criticising the financial regula- tor. Another was Mr Liang, who studied ar- tificial intelligence at Zhe Da and made his first forays into business there. China’s leader apparently bringing Mr Ma in from the cold so publicly, and meeting with Mr Liang, will only fuel Hangzhou’s growth. Zhe Da has already grown fast in recent decades, buying high-end equipment and hiring top-tier scientists. some 70,000 stu- dents and faculty now live and work across 34 Many more men than women 36 Cheating at exams 33 its seven campuses, in blocky buildings overlooking lakes and plum trees. Hang- zhou and other cities have said they want to transform their universities into “inno- vation ecosystems’. Zhe Da has not only become a research powerhouse but, even more importantly, has been adept at turn- ing bright young students into business leaders. It says it will be a “world-class” university by 2027. Alumni say it is model- ling itself on Stanford University rather than China’s most prestigious colleges in Beijing and Shanghai. This may sound fanciful, and on overall measures of reputation and student expe- rience by the QS World University Rank- ings, Zhe Da ranks 47th globally. Yet by some metrics, the university has already eclipsed many of the world’s best. It now produces more scientific papers than any other university, according to the latest Leiden ranking, a measure of the volume of research output. It is behind only Harvard in producing papers deemed to be in the top 10% of their fields. Alumni are among the wealthiest entre- preneurs in China, according to rankings by Hurun, a research firm, of those with more than sbn yuan ($700m) in assets. They include Colin Huang, the founder of Pinduoduo, an e-commerce giant, and Duan Yongping, an electronics tycoon. In recent months the university's repu- >} 34 China tation for enterprise has reached new heights. China is abuzz with talk of the “Six Little Dragons” of Hangzhou, a clutch of zippy startups, three of which were founded by Zhe Da alumni. DeepSeek is one. Another is Manycore Tech, a 3D-de- sion software firm, which on February 15th announced a plan to list in Hong Kong this year. [hen there is DEEP Robotics, which specialises in dog-like robots (pictured), used for patrolling and rescue operations. Three factors lie behind the university’s success. The first is its ability to attract and foster talent. Although many students in China yearn for a stable government job, Zhe Da has long drawn more daring souls, who throw themselves into startup compe- titions where they can pitch business ideas to get university funding. Their professors are unusual, too, encouraging students to dabble across disciplines in order to spark ideas, and trying to foster what they call a “mistake-tolerant’ atmosphere. When Huang Chaoyu was in high school he built a temperature-controlled tank for his pet fish. Now a 21-year-old un- dergraduate studying materials science at Zhe Da, he has set up a company with his supervisor aiming to produce a kind of bio- logical “glue” to help heal wounds. Pure re- search is important for breakthroughs, he says, but “to truly change society you need industry”. Mr Huang is part of a special class, first offered in 1999, that helps sci- ence students learn about entrepreneur- ship. lt meets in a shared workspace where a sleek white robot stands near a poster calling on students to “dare to innovate”. On average, one fifth of the class starts a company within five years of graduating, say university officials. Alumni help them find funding, internships and contacts. Many faculty members start compa- nies, too. Chinese universities are typically uneasy about distractions from academic pursuits. But Zhe Da has been helping its scientists commercialise their findings for decades, says Jin Yiping, a university ad- ministrator. In 2009 it set up an institute dedicated to this purpose. DEEP Robotics is run by Zhu Qiuguo, a professor at the school of engineering. His colleague, Gao Chao, runs a company which makes tex- tiles from graphene, an advanced material. The second factor helping Zhe Da is lo- cation. Hangzhou is a liveable canal- crossed city just 45 minutes by train from Shanghai, but a long way from the politi- cians in the capital. After the Communist Party took power in 1949, state planners largely ignored it, leaving space for private firms to re-emerge when reforms began in 1978. Of the top 100 companies in Hang- zhou, 82 are private, a high proportion fora large Chinese city. Its GDP per person is nearly double the national average. That Mr Ma’s company, Alibaba, was founded here has also had an impact. The university describes the firm as a “good neighbour, partner and friend”. In 2017 Mr Ma made a big donation to a university hospital. In 2023 Alibaba donated its quan- tum-computing lab to the university. For nearly a decade Alibaba and the university have jointly run a research centre for what they call “frontier technologies” such as computer vision. It takes interns and post- doctoral students from the university and helps them find jobs in industry. Third, Hangzhou officials are known for getting things done without asking for favours or fancy dinners, says Zhang Jie, an investor and Zhe Da alumna. This makes it easier for young graduates to start compa- nies. Most government services can be used through an app, notes a local entre- preneur. Officials love tech firms. They of- fer startup founders with PhDs up to 15m yuan in funding if they move to the city. Other universities are trying to emulate Hangzhou's success. I'singhua in Beijing is producing AI talent, much of which gets hired by DeepSeek. The South China Uni- versity of Technology in Guangzhou has close links with China’s electric-vehicle in- dustry. But Hangzhou's mix is hard to rep- licate, notes Yao Yang, an economist at Pe- king University. And talent tends to cluster in a few spots, not disperse to many. Going global Zhe Da still faces challenges in competing on a global level. One problem is that it re- lies largely on the government for funding. That has served it well so far, but leaves it at the mercy of changing official priorities and fiscal constraints. Alumni are gener- ous but building up an endowment to match, say, Stanford’s $36bn is unlikely. And even then, the university must defer to officials on how to spend it. Compared with its overseas peers, few of Zhe Da’s faculty or students are from outside China. It has poached elite re- searchers from American universities (in- cluding, last year, Sun Song, a star math- ematician from the University of Califor- nia, Berkeley) but they are typically of Chi- nese descent. Political tensions with the West do not help. Nor do the barriers to free speech common in China. For all that, Zhe Da shows that “the tec- tonic plates of global higher education are shifting very dramatically”, says William Kirby, a China expert at Harvard Business School. In January China released a plan to become an “education power...with global influence” by 2035. Not long ago that goal would have looked overly ambitious. Now, places like Zhe Da have made it look sur- prisingly likely. Chaguan, our China column, has been suspended. Our goal is to reinstate it when we have a new columnist resident in bering. The Economist February 22nd 2025 Sex imbalance Bare branches YIYANG, JIANGX! PROVINCE By 2027 nearly one 1n six young Chinese men will be unable to find a partner “CO! COURSE I want to get married,” says Fu, a lorry driver in Yiyang, a far-flung county in Jiangxi province. Once a migrant worker, the 36-year-old returned to the village to live with his ageing par- ents. They are anxious for him to tie the knot. “But there are few women,’ he sighs. The eligible girls around him are all spo- ken for; others have left to work in cities. Fu’s plight is not uncommon. Men like him are known as guazg gun—bare branch- es, unable to bear fruit. Their numbers be- gan to increase more than a decade ago. But the scale of the problem is now becom- ing clear. /he Economist has analysed data from the UN’s World Population Pros- pects, a biennial report, and from China’s 2020 census. The data reveal that the sex ratio—the number of men for every 100 women—among men aged 23-37 and wom- en aged 22-36 will hit a peak of 119 by 2027. (Those are the ages between which 80% of each sex gets married—see chart 1.) It is then predicted to remain high for decades. In 2012 the ratio was just 105. That means that in 2027 there will be 22.5m more men than women in those co- horts, by far the largest number of “sur- plus” young males ever recorded any- where. What is more, the share of unmar- ried men aged 25-39 shot up from 13% to 30% from 2006 to 2022. This is an issue of huge concern for China’s rulers. It was brought about by the arrival in the 1980s of cheap ultrasound machines, which allowed parents across Asia to tell the sex of their unborn child. The wide- spread preference for sons opened the door to sex-selective abortions. In South Korea the sex ratio at birth hit a brief peak >> Timebomb China, sex ratio of young adults of marriageable age”, males per 100 females 120 115 F t Orecas 110 105 100 Ay = = —| — | ry a pe We07 390) 2000 S103 20 830 45 dSources: UN World Population Prospects; *23-37 tor men, Chinese Census: [he / conomisi 99-36 lor women eee live event Ste, > © =_— fi = 1 TT TT cf am a r 4 ii, q q oo ' \ A | ‘ q 4 1 , uf | i cei ai Monday February 24th ! 4pm GMT / 11am EST / 8am PST ES > Zanny Minton Beddoes ab ~ Editor-in-chief Ps! » 4 A, rif > = 4 Fr B ) n , i 4. 7 . mm if™ ta i 4 4 | a | _™ a : i“ ’ - Lie ; i ae an, Edward Carr Deputy editor ee -_ r a ky sy ek ar Volo odymyr Zelensi seeking to influenc ha ft | cm | r re | _ = de ~ 4 i} fe AAC Ly is ‘het j = | rm V" a F 2 pe eace de eal? , Vay @| | f< Je; ali is a re "ed. WNal next ¢ a= Ries eS = he — ™_ ethic +. —_r P = ai = = a = - => *" = = ‘ =i = es iL =— —_ BaBT = BF _ Be, a bp ee ee | Ee Fa = = >_>. = = |= — ar 4 \A r =] fle i, ig ; a * a | ¥ Lie ” if , 7 , =. 7, re o~ | 7 r | 4 Ppt | a =} a Gl cial 1 i ¥ , I = = 7 a ail —s . = re | — —_ — =—s eS 5 ¥ 7 5 "i ——— EE = —_—. | ail Thy ”™ LAT ms A = | AIM ADF AeA Fre Ae ' . ™~ AL Al a ee 12 WOTIQ! JOLT OQ | f ed | LOTS aS [INe@eV GQISCLUSS | i, oo gl) j ma 8 i i BS 7 a = 7 a FF BE , 1 ] a ae | r 4 “is | i i ¢ Shashank Joshi se rs Defence editor i. Arkady Ostrovsky Russia and eastern Europe editor Oliver Carroll Ukraine correspondent Reserve your place: The economist.com/reserveyourplace Economist 36 China of 117 in 1994, before falling to 106 in 2012, where it has roughly remained. In India it was 109 as late as 2010 (in 2024 it was 107). In developed countries like America and Britain, it was around 105 in 2024. In China the problem was made worse by demographic engineering. In 1973 the country began trying to reduce its popula- tion with the “later, longer and fewer” cam- paign. This was followed by the draconian one-child policy in 1979. Being given just one chance dramatically lowered couples’ chances of having a boy naturally, and fur- ther incentivised sex selection. As a result, China has suffered by far the worst imbal- ance in its sex ratio at birth (see chart 2). Now that those boys are grown up, mi- gration is adding to their woes. The 2020 census showed the sex ratio for young adults was 106 in urban areas and 120 in ru- ral ones. Young rural women who move to the city often marry richer urban men. But changing social mores around marriage mean many better-educated urban women do not want to get married at all, let alone to rural men, shrinking the dating pool yet further. Statistics released on February 8th showed that the number of marriages in China in 2024 fell by 20% from the previ- ous year, to 6.1m. That is less than half the number registered in 2013, and the lowest number since the 1980s. Some guang gun are resigned to their fate. Guo, a 38-year-old musician in Shang- rao, near to Fu's village, has been on a cou- ple of blind dates. On one, he met an over- achiever who studied in Germany and worked as a manager for a car company. It was useless”, he says. On another date, the woman “scrutinised my family background as if it were a business deal”. As women grow scarcer they also be- come more valuable. Bride prices (a pay- ment from the groom’s family to the bride’s to seal the marriage) have soared. One survey in Liaoning, a north-eastern province, found that the bride price in rural areas jumped from 68,000 yuan ($9,000) in 2016 to 176,000 yuan in 2020, adjusting for inflation. Another, across 11 provinces, | cia Long way to go Sex ratio at birth, males per 100 females 120 south aoe China Taiwan ~- f \ ae 110 === is: Natural ratio Japan Singapore 00 Ay 1980 90 2000 10 20 24 Source: UN World Population Prospects found that costs of marriage (including ex- penses like housing and matchmaking) for rural males were 7.6 times higher after 2010 than before 2000. The shortage of women has had other side-effects. Between July and December of 2018 the Chinese government, working with police in Myanmar, Cambodia, Laos, Vietnam and Thailand, jointly rescued 1,130 foreign women who had been traf- ficked into China to be married. The Com- munist Party, obsessed with social stabili- Cheating in exams The Economist February 22nd 2025 ty, also worries a lot about rootless young men with no family prospects. The ratio in young adults will remain above 115 well into the 2040s. The main hope is that, since peaking in the mid-2000s, the sex ratio at birth has de- clined. Cultural changes and female eco- nomic empowerment have chipped away at couples’ preference for sons. Eventually, the numbers of young men and women could equalise. But that will come as little consolation for today’s rural bachelors. & Another type of migrant Authorities try (again) to stop parents gaming the exam system N ANCIENT CHINESE saying states that meng mu san qian: the mother of Mencius, a sage, “moved three times” to find him the right study environment. Tiger mums the world over know the feeling, but few push harder than the Chinese; the game of cat and mouse the Communist Party plays with parents to stop them trying to game the system is legendary. The party has now released new rules to try to stop it. In theory, any of the 13m students who take the annual gaokao entrance exam can qualify to attend university if they achieve a good score. In practice, because of the skewed way places are allocated by region, the competition is fiercer in populous provinces. So a small number of parents try to move. That is not always easy. To enroll your child at a school in another prov- ince might require buying a house, find- ing a new job, or bureaucratic wrangling to change your /ukou, or household registration. So there is a more tempor- ary way by which some parents try to cheat the system. They keep their child attending the same school but, using bribes or connections, arrange for them to sit the gaokao exam in a province where they do not live. In one notorious case in 2021 the child of a head teacher in populous Hebei province (with about 600,000 test-takers) took the gaokao in Tibet (competing with just 40,000 lo- cals). Public outrage ensued. A grey industry has emerged to help with these tricks, which are known as “gaokao migration”. Consultancies offer to smooth things over with local officials and schools, for a fee. One such firm in Henan province told /he Economist that for 60,000 yuan ($7,700) they could arrange for a student to sit the exam in Hainan, a rural southern province. Worried about the anger that cheat- ing and educational inequality creates, on February 7th the education ministry issued new rules demanding schools send a report on each student twice a year, to make sure all are studying and taking exams where they should be. It would help if China relaxed region- al quotas for universities or scrapped them altogether. But resistance from places which benefit from the current system makes that all but impossible, says Li Hongbin of Stanford University. One such place is Beijing, home to many rich and powerful figures. In 2012 re- form-minded officials proposed allow- ing more people to take the gaokao in the capital. But Beijingers protested that it would make the exam more competitive for their children. After much ado, the reform was stifled. Parents will continue to act like the mother of Mencius. Hands in the air like you don’t care The Economist February 22nd 2025 LAGOS Meet Generation Hustle Soon the largest group of young people in the world will be African. Who are they? HE IS TRAINING to be a seamstress four S days a week and works as a cook on two other days. In between, Grace Garus Dalop finds time to peddle wigs. Along with tips and financial help from neighbours and ac- quaintances, that is just enough for the 26- year-old to rent a room in Lagos, the com- mercial capital of Nigeria. “Everybody wants to leave Nigeria,’ says Ms Dalop, “because you work every day of your life and you don't see the money you're work- ing for!” She blames her plight on the pres- ident, for whom she prays, though she did not vote for him. Deep down, she thinks it may be time for the army to intervene. Some of Ms Dalop’s frustration is par- ticular to Nigeria, where inflation has been above 30% on average for more than a year, with food inflation running even higher. Yet much of it is common among young people across Africa. Better educated than their parents and full of entrepreneurial zeal, they find that their societies are not letting them fulfil their potential. Forced to juggle multiple side-hustles to stay afloat, many try their luck abroad, seek solace in God or find themselves tempted by au- thoritarian politics. That matters not only for the individ- uals but because young Africans are the fu- ture. As countries in the rich world age and shrink, Africa’s population will continue to grow (see chart on next page). It is project- ed to double by 2050, with the median age below 25. As Africans make up a greater share of the world’s young, it is essential to understand the forces that shape them. 38 The battle for Khartoum 39 More fighting in eastern Congo 39 America’s allies in the Middle East 40 Syria’s next steps 37 | One is burning economic frustration. Unlike everywhere else in the world, young people across the continent are no more likely to be in salaried jobs than their parents, even though they are better edu- cated. Three-quarters of young Africans say they are strugeling to find adequate work, blighting their ambitions. “When my dad was 39 he had two houses and a piece of land,’ says a Ugandan civil-society worker in her 30s. “I’m still renting.” The frustration is compounded by social me- dia, where glitzy posts from around the globe suggest just how far they lag behind their peers in Europe, America or Asia. Young Africans have made a virtue of necessity. Startup entrepreneurs in Lagos and Nairobi are disrupting their countries’ moribund banking systems with new fin- tech, or finding creative solutions to im- prove food supply chains and make agri- culture more efficient. Others combine several small-scale enterprises to make ends meet in the informal economy. Yet the secure jobs many want elude them. Since 2000, economies across sub-Saharan Africa have added some 9m jobs a year, writes Edward Paice, the head of the Africa Research Institute in London, in his book “Youthquake”. Less than a third have been in waged employment—not enough to support the roughly 12m young Africans joining the job market each year. 38 Middle East & Africa Many young people feel that their eco- nomic malaise is due to failing political systems in their countries, and that they have little agency to improve things. Cul- tural norms stressing respect for elders have helped entrench a gerontocracy. Prot- ests are suppressed, co-opted by elites or simply ignored. “I might as well accept that I can never get access to the corridors of power...so let this shit burn down,” says Christian Adika, a PhD student and regular protester from Ghana. The Ugandan civil- society worker has come to accept elec- tions as a rubber-stamping exercise for the ruling party. “People are saying, ‘Yes we are angry, but if we go out there, we will either die or end up going to prison,’ she says. Such frustrations have eroded faith in democracy. An Afrobarometer survey pub- lished in 2023 found that 60% of young Af- ricans are not happy with how democracy works. Only 37% identify with a political party, a smaller share than their parents’ generation. In 2024 the Africa Youth Sur- vey, funded by a South African charity, found that 60% of young Africans think “Western-style democracy” is not a good fit for their countries. “I shocked myself by having the thought that maybe we just need a [Paul] Kagame,” says the Ugandan civil-society worker, talking of Rwanda’s autocratic president. Youngsters fed up with collapsing infrastructure are im- pressed by Mr Kagame’s apparent effec- tiveness in improving things like access to household electricity. With no memory of the region’s most brutal military regimes, some have even cheered military coups. Many youngsters are flocking to the pews in search of an escape. In contrast to much of Europe, young Africans are just as devout as their parents. By 2050 more Christians will live in sub-Saharan Africa than anywhere else. “We don't have sys- tems that work, we need to believe in a higher power,’ says David Oladapo, a 30- year-old devotee and tech worker in Nige- ria. This piety is fuelling conservative val- ues. Only 37% of young Africans think gay and trans people should have more protec- tion. Some 60% of Africa’s Christians want the Bible to govern national law. Most of the growth in Christianity is driven by Pentecostalism, the dominant Protestant denomination in at least eight African countries, including Nigeria and Zambia. Even in Ethiopia, where Orthodox Christianity has had a presence since the fourth century, a fifth of the population now identify as Pentecostals, says Jon Ab- bink of Leiden University in the Nether- lands. Part of the appeal is that Pentecos- talism encourages hustling. It espouses a “prosperity gospel” that says that, in effect, you can pray your way to success (hard work doesn’t hurt). Pentecostal churches offer access to patronage networks and po- litical power from which most young Afri- cans are excluded in the rest of their lives. Yet for all their piety, few are relying on the power of prayer alone to improve their lot. Those who can, look abroad for the op- portunities that elude them at home. Half of those polled forthe Africa Youth Survey plan to move away in the next five years. Fewer than half of school leavers want to stay on the continent, according to a sur- vey by the African Leadership University in Rwanda. Some 37% want to move to America. A quarter hope to reach Europe. For Ms Dalop, the seamstress in Lagos, “any where asides Nigeria’ will do. With little to lose at home and all to play for abroad, some take desperate risks to leave and end up falling victim to traf- fickers or smugglers. Between 2020 and mid-2024 some 8,300 people died trying to cross the Sahara and the Mediterranean, according to the UN (the real number is probably higher). Yet many who make it out find success. West African restaura- teurs are earning Michelin stars in London. Streams of Afrobeats on Spotify increased more than sixfold between 2017 and 2022. What does all this mean for the future? One danger is to democracy on the conti- nent. “The gap between the promise of de- mocracy and its realised dividends over the last 30 years is arguably the biggest threat to democratic consolidation in African states, says Ken Opalo of Georgetown University in Washington, DC. If the frus- trations of youngsters remain unad- dressed, three decades of democratic pro- gress could crumble. Yet there is also a more hopeful pos- sibility. Youth protests in recent years have forced legislative changes in Kenya and prevented the dubious postponement of elections in senegal, among other achieve- ments. Well-targeted political mobilisa- tion by the young may yet force their gov- ernments into becoming more responsible. Almost 40% of young Africans say that, de- spite everything, they are optimistic about the future. Imagine what they could do if they were innovating because of better politics rather than in spite of them. @ The youthful continent Population aged 15-24, % A0 Sub-Saharan Africa East Asia & Pacific “sli oil Europe & Forecast 10 Central Asia , Otheregions ——-- 0 1960 30 2000 20 40 50 Source: World Bank The Economist February 22nd 2025 Sudan The battle for Khartoum NAIROBI The national army is on the brink of retaking the capital. What next? & WAS THE first time the militia com- mander had been seen in public for months. “Please don’t listen to any ru- mour-mongers, urged a haggard-looking Muhammad Hamdan Dagalo, also known as Hemedti. “They want to break you,” continued the head of the Rapid Support Forces (RSF), a paramilitary group widely accused of genocide. His rare video ad- dress, broadcast on January 31st, was meant to rally the RSF’s last remaining troops in Khartoum, Sudan’s capital. Many of his militiamen have been fleeing west across the Nile river. His pleas may have been in vain. [he RSF’s days in the city look numbered. The Sudanese Armed Forces (SAF), the national army, is on a roll. The rival RSF captured most of Khartoum soon after civil war broke out nearly two years ago and swept through the agricultural heartlands of the Nile valley, the SAF’s traditional stronghold. But the pendulum has been swinging back in the army’s favour. In Jan- uary it took Wad Madani, one of Sudan’s biggest cities (see map on next page). Then it broke the RSF’s siege of the army’s head- quarters in the capital. It is advancing fast along the Nile towards the presidential palace in the heart of Khartoum, capturing several important bridges and the national oil refinery on the way. If the army regains full control of Khar- toum, it could be a turning point in a war that has displaced 12m Sudanese and caused one of the world’s worst famines in decades. Last month General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, the SAF’s leader and Sudan’s de facto president, made his first appearance in the capital since being forced to relocate to Port Sudan on the Red Sea in mid-2023. His arrival sparked bullishness border- ing on triumphalism among the army and its supporters. [he general vowed to expel the RSF “from every corner of Sudan”. “It is not conceivable or acceptable that the RSF should have any military or political role in the future Sudan,” says a Sudanese dip- lomat. On February 9th the SAF pledged to form a new government of “technocrats”. The RSF appears to be in turmoil. De- spite its fighting agility and advanced weaponry supplied largely by the United Arab Emirates (UAE) (which denies this), the group has struggled to consolidate its early battlefield gains. In areas they occu- py, local defence groups and tribal militias still resist it. Defections may have sapped >> The Economist February 22nd 2025 SS LIBYA Red Sea = Nile Port _ _ oudan Darfur CHAD region SUDA Khartoum’ ERITREA e O Ld 4 E i aa thts en + = ‘ ( ‘i — A “i : x bs, By | J a 7s r Pree! a" ty; Saeed eT = dig | fr ‘a : a 7 7 < a - i a i ——T r Ye a Se ‘oe ia
