METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: Bonds, Energy
Title: By JOSEPH EPSTEIN RITING cannot be taught but it can be learned. A para- dox? A Zen koan? Perhaps...
ID: 81

CONTENT:
By JOSEPH EPSTEIN RITING cannot be taught but it can be learned. A para- dox? A Zen koan? Perhaps both, but this is what I concluded after 30 years of teaching a course called Advanced Prose Composition at Northwestern University. I am not about to say that I was a good teacher, for one of the few truths about teaching I know is that those who think they teach well proba- bly don’t. I did, however, have nine or 10 superior students, out of some 500, who went on to become editors or to publish novels, poems, biographies, translations and other works. As for my Advanced Prose Composi- tion course, over what it was supposed to be advanced I was never quite cer- tain. In the course, I taught about the rhythm inherent in prose, about com- mon grammatical and semantic mis- takes, about usage generally, about irony and its uses, about syntax and the wide range of its possibilities, about the power of metaphor and sim- ile. In the age of student evaluations, the course received its share of plau- dits —“This guy knows his stuff”—but, then, I’m less than sure that students are in any position to judge. I feel fortunate in retiring from teaching when I did, in 2002, just before the current technotyranny set in. Not every student then owned a smartphone or brought a tablet or lap- Learning to write means learning to think. We risk becoming too dependent on prose-producing AI. top to class. One of my classroom exer- cises was to pass out a list of 15 cul- tural figures and events on it, and ask how many among the 15 my students knew. Among the items on the list were the 1913 Armory Show, Reynaldo MILOS KOJADINOVIC/ALAMY much of the world’s cross-border com- merce, whether initially priced in ru- pees, riyals or pesos, is settled in dol- lars passing primarily through the U.S. financial system. “The U.S. dollar is in- volved in nearly 90 percent of foreign exchange transactions,” Mr. Fishman notes. He cites one other critical choke- point: “The intellectual property and technical know-how that underpin a vast array of essential technologies, no- tably the advanced computer chips at the core of the digital economy.” With its command over these essential chokepoints, the U.S. wields its power- ful “arsenal of economic weapons”— sanctions, export controls and invest- ment restrictions. Mr. Fishman dates the origin of this new age to the aftermath of 9/11 and the George W. Bush administration’s drive to throttle terrorist funding. But the real catalyst, the author argues, was Iran. To halt Tehran’s march to a nuclear bomb, Congress passed a series of laws enabling the Treasury Depart- ment to apply sanctions: Any financial institution found to be doing business with Iran risked being cut off from accessing the U.S. dollar, prevented from participating in the U.S. financial system and subject to huge fines. In the battle against the mullahs, Trea- sury was thus transformed from its traditionally supporting role to a cen- tral one. Later, under the Obama administra- tion, the threat of sanctions and the specter of huge fines persuaded banks and companies around the world to a \ Hahn, the Spanish Civil War and Rob- ert Graves. Few students could identify any of the items. I then told them that if they planned to present themselves as men and women of culture, they had to know such things and their signifi- cance along with a great deal more. Today, their smartphones at the ready, they would search online for these items, which would give them a super- ficial knowledge but, as with so much of the new technological learning, a far from substantial one. In the years since I retired from teaching, technology has made greater and greater inroads into education, most recently in the form of large lan- guage models. ChatGPT and other bots sever or shrink their economic ties with Iran. Purchases of Iranian oil plummeted. Iran’s economy cratered, finally forcing Tehran to the negotiat- ing table. A nuclear deal would be reached in 2015, though the first Trump administration would withdraw the U.S. as a signatory in 2018. Russia has proved a more formida- ble foe in economic warfare. After Vladimir Putin seized Crimea in 2014, the U.S., in concert with its allies, cut off Russian access to credit markets To halt Tehran’s march toward a nuclear bomb, Congress gave the Treasury Department the power to apply sanctions. and oil and gas technology; they also imposed travel bans on and froze the assets of Russians close to Mr. Putin. The Russian economy was sent into a tailspin. Eight years later, as Russian troops massed on the border with Ukraine, the Biden administration warned of the “most severe sanctions that have ever been imposed.” Yet Mr. Putin still invaded Ukraine. The eco- nomic consequences of U.S. sanctions were not enough to dissuade Mr. Putin. As Mr. Fishman explains, three fac- tors contributed to Russia’s resilience. First, once Russia met resistance to its invasion of Ukraine, the Kremlin piv- are ubiquitous, giving a whole new meaning to botulism. John Warner, in his “More Than Words: How to Think About Writing in the Age of AI,” sums up its advocates’ bold promise: “There is something better out there! We can finally be liberated from the frustrating limits of the human mind and body!” Mr. Warner expresses his dubiety about artificial intelligence early in his book: “No, we do not and may never fully understand the mechanisms of the full range of our cognition, but this doesn’t stop us from recognizing that human thought is distinct from algo- rithm-produced syntax.” He goes on to ask if it is possible that AI “is not genu- inely solving a problem but is instead oted to a wartime economy that con- tinued to generate economic growth, albeit of a distorted kind, prioritizing military production at the expense of the civilian sector. Rampant inflation forced Russia’s central bank to set interest rates at more than 20%. Sec- ond, in the face of sanctions from the West, Russia turned to China to fill the breach. As Mr. Fishman writes, “Sino- Russian trade flourished,” with China providing everything from technology and civilian goods to bullet-proof vests. Russia is now economically dependent on China. The third factor was the nature of the U.S. sanctions. While they targeted both finance and technology, they did not disrupt Russia in its greatest vul- nerability—oil exports. Oil and gas revenues make up as much as 40% of Russia’s total budget, and a cutoff of oil exports would have strangled the Rus- sian economy. But here was a dilemma: Russia was exporting five times as much oil as Iran to the world market. The Biden administration feared that an embargo would have sent oil prices soaring, along with the price of gaso- line at the pump. That would have been bad for the global economy and bad for U.S. politics. The solution was a price cap that sought to set a maximum price of $60 a barrel on Russian oil, enforced by international sanctions and the fact that the global oil trade is immersed in a dollar-based web of shipping, insur- ance and marine services. But the 10 Please turn to page C8 being used to paper over a problem in a way that will cause significantly worse problems down the line.” The problem, specifically, in this case is the inability of students to write well and read with intelligence and imagination. As Mr. Warner notes, in our digital age “the challenges of concentrating on text are undermined by a culture where we are expected to spend much more time skimming and assimilating significant volumes of information than we are deeply considering the ideas and concepts in those texts.” John Warner has been a teacher of writing at the college level and is the author of other books on writing, among them “Why They Can’t Write” and “The Writer’s Practice.” In this book, he takes on the effect of AI on student writing—an effect he finds a good deal less than salubrious. He sets out all the claims for AI made by its exponents, many of them extrava- gant—it is “the greatest technology humanity has yet developed,” accord- ing to Sam Altman, the OpenAl co- founder who stands to greatly benefit from it—and describes how others think it will doom humanity. “I have no clue how to evaluate the ultimate prob- abilities of these future scenarios,” Mr. Warner writes, “and because of this, Pleaseturnto pageC9 C8 | Saturday/Sunday, February 22 - 238, 2025 KK KK THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. BOOKS ‘People don’t expect too much from literature. They just want to know they’re not alone with being confused. —JoNaTHAN AMES The Ingenious Gentleman Don Quixote de la Mancha By Miguel de Cervantes (1605) For the purposes of this col- umn, I’m putting antiheroes into two categories: the socio- pathic and the delusional. Don Quixote is of the latter category: He’s insane, vainglorious and fum- bling, and Miguel de Cervantes’s classic and profoundly comedic novel is the tale of his misguided adventures. After reading too many stories of knights and their ladies, Don Quixote comes to think of him- self as a knight and embarks on a quest to restore honor to Spain and gain the love of a woman, Dulcinea. But his battles are delusions— windmills are giants, goatherds are rival knights—and while Don Qui- xote often takes a tremendous beating, his codependent sidekick, Sancho, usually gets the worst of it. Don Quixote, despite his flaws, is a loveable antihero, in part because he’s a book lover. Though it is books, of course, that are his undoing: “from so much reading,” writes Cervantes, “his brain dried up and he went completely out of his mind.” In a Lonely Place By Dorothy B. Hughes (1947) This noir-masterpiece antici- pated and influenced many of the serial-killer novels to come. Patricia Highsmith’s “The Talented Mr. Ripley” and Thomas Harris’s “The Silence of the Lambs” certainly seem to owe a dark tip of the hat to Dorothy B. Hughes’s “In a Lonely Place.” Hughes’s antihero—a sociopath—is Dix Steele, a handsome World War II pilot who finds himself adrift in Los Angeles after the war. As cover, Dix pretends to be writing a mys- tery novel, but the only story he’s authoring is that of his own mur- derous nocturnal life preying on women. Hughes’s masterstroke is her depiction of Dix’s mind. Her insights are so precise and sensi- tive that the reader comes close to identifying with this madman, nearly finding him sympathetic, while also rooting for his demise. “He was there for a long time. Lost in a world of swirling fog and crashing wave, a world empty of all but these things and his grief and the keening of the fog horn far at sea. Lost in a lonely place.” It’s a fascinating tension, this play of empathy and horror. American Dollar Diplomacy Continued from page C7 months it took for the U.S. and its allies to work out the price cap allowed Moscow enough time to cobble together a ghost fleet of hundreds of secondhand tankers and a network of shadowy traders who operate outside the dollar-based system. Russia was thus able to develop a parallel trading system and sell oil above the $60 cap, most notably to China and India. Even though the sanctions have not stopped the war in Ukraine, they have inflicted damage upon Russia, imped- ing its imperial ambitions by cutting off its economy from the Western world. And last month, only 10 days before leaving office, the Biden admin- istration—no longer concerned about the political fallout from rising oil prices—finally put in place tougher sanctions that can partially constrain Russia’s ability to produce oil. Today the most consequential battle of economic warfare is the one unfold- ing between China and the U.S. On the American side it reflects, Mr. Fishman tells us, a decided shift in thinking. The U.S. no longer believes that expanding economic relations with China will cre- ate common interests and international stability. Instead, the dominant view in America now is that China has been “waging an economic assault against the United States for decades,” stealing technology and intellectual property, launching cyberattacks, seeking “to
