METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: Energy
Title: By Bryce While most of his Chinault and speech focused on Andrew state-specific issues Fowler suc...
ID: 45

CONTENT:
By Bryce While most of his Chinault and speech focused on Andrew state-specific issues Fowler such as fiscal re- sponsibility, health- care, education and energy, he took a moment to call on the U.S. Congress to “rethink the Jones Act.” It wasn’t the first time Mr. Lamont raised concerns about this particular law. In 2022 he and other New England governors wrote to the Biden administration urging the suspension of the law, which they argued “effectively precludes” the delivery of U.S.-exported lique- fied natural gas to New England. The century-old law has driven up prices, jammed roads and shriveled the U.S. maritime industry. | Officially known as the Merchant Marine Act of 1920, the Jones Act blocks foreign-flagged ships from transporting goods between U.S. ports. The law has historically had many detractors from both sides of the aisle. Republican Sen. John Mc- Cain was against it. Hawaii Demo- cratic Rep. Ed Case has blamed the law for “artificially inflating the cost of shipping goods” to his state. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez called for a “one-year waiver from the Jones Act for Puerto Rico” after Hurricane Fiona hit the island in 2022. These pages have long editorial- ized in favor of the Jones Act’s re- peal. The most recent attempt to do so was introduced by Utah Republi- can Sen. Mike Lee in January 2024. But the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, then led by Democrats, took no action be- yond reading the bill. Now the polit- ical landscape has shifted and Re- publicans control the committee. The time is right to revisit Mr. Lee’s bill. The Jones Act has powerful sup- porters. Most of them represent constituencies that benefit finan- cially in some way from the eco- nomic distortions the law creates. Groups such as the AFL-CIO, the Ma- rine Engineers Beneficial Associa- tion and American Maritime Part- nerships have spent heavily to preserve the Jones Act. Organiza- tions like the Transportation Insti- tute argue it is “critical” for national security and domestic economic sta- bility, ensuring “reliable domestic water transportation service” and employment for hundreds of thou- sands of U.S. citizens. Some Republi- cans, including Louisiana Sen. Bill Cassidy and Florida Rep. John Ruth- erford, support leaving the Jones Act alone. President Trump has been coy, but in December he posted a link to a pro-Jones Act article on his Truth Social account. If he’s serious about bringing costs down for American consumers, he should call Mr. La- mont and listen to his pitch. Con- necticut has no natural-gas reserves or production, and the state’s con- sumers pay some of the highest prices for energy in the nation. Al- most all the LNG they use to cook and keep warm in the winter enters the state overland from New York. In addition to driving up gasoline prices, the Jones Act increases the volume of heavy traffic on Connecti- cut highways by forcing goods to be delivered via long-haul vehicles. The law also makes replacing ferries— like those that cross Long Island Sound from Connecticut—difficult since new ships are required to be constructed in the U.S. American- built ships are “far less numerous and far less competitive than their international counterparts,” accord- ing to the Cato Institute. Congress intended the Jones Act to bolster domestic shipbuilding. It hoped to spawn a ready supply of merchant mariners during war or national emergency. But by requiring every ship transporting goods be- tween U.S. ports to be built, owned and largely crewed by U.S. citizens, the Jones Act limits competition. This has led to an aging fleet of U.S.- compliant ships, with fewer than 100 vessels left in operation, down from more than 250 in 1980. Contrary to the legislation’s original intent, there isn’t a single U.S.-flagged, U.S.- built LNG carrier sailing today. The country has few options for moving goods via maritime transport. The U.S. is the world’s largest natural gas producer. But, according to a report by the Competitive En- terprise Institute, the Jones Act means Americans “can’t realize many benefits arising from this in- credible production.” Even progres- sive outlets like Vox and Slate con- cede that the law has stifled Puerto Rico’s long-term economic growth. The Jones Act’s repeal would re- duce energy and transportation costs—in Connecticut and every state. Mr. Trump has the power to strike a blow against inflation while restoring the American maritime in- dustry to greatness. Smart Demo- crats like Mr. Lamont and other Northeast governors would likely support him. Mr. Chinault is director of state government affairs at Abundance In- stitute. Mr. Fowler is communica- tions specialist at Yankee Institute. Notable €3 Quotable: Thom Tillis on Ukraine Sen. Thom Tillis (R., N.C.) speak- ing on the Senate floor Feb. 20: There is no moral person on this planet who can consider Putin to have a legitimate reason to effect this sort of carnage. And I saw it firsthand, and I will never be able to forget it. And what the American people and the world population will never be able to forget either is the aftermath of appeasing Vladimir Putin. Ladies and gentlemen, China is already helping Russia. North Ko- rea has sent thousands of troops, and North Korea don’t [sic] really care about life. They’ve allowed 4,000 to 5,000 of their soldiers die on the battlefield within six weeks of getting on the ground. They are throwing body after body after body, trying to kill and break the will of the Ukrainian people. And it’s just unacceptable. So look, I’m a Republican. I sup- port President Trump, and I believe that most of his policies on national security are right. I believe his in- stincts are pretty good. But what I’m telling you—whoever believes that there is any space for Vladimir Putin and the future of a stable globe better go to Ukraine. They better go to Europe. They better in- vest the time to understand that this man is a cancer and the great- est threat to democracy in my life- time. And it will be a cancer that spreads into the South China Sea, into Taiwan, and metastasize across the globe. So ladies and gentlemen, when I tell you that Vladimir Putin is a liar, a murderer and a man re- sponsible for ordering the system- atic torture, kidnapping and rape of innocent civilians, believe me, be- cause the evidence is mile high. So for those of us who have invested to [sic] time and understand this, believe me when I tell you this is important to every single one of you. If you believe that Ukraine is a country an ocean away and not rel- evant to our national security, think again. The world is small. The world is watching. The strength of our alliances are on the line and the future of democracy and the world is on the line if we do anything less than defeat Vladimir Putin. Al2 | Saturday/Sunday, February 22 - 23, 2025 KK KK THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. OPINION REVIEW & OUTLOOK RFK Jr. Makes His First Vaccine Move obert F. Kennedy Jr. has been Health and Human Services secretary for all of a week, but he’s already pressing what looks like an anti-vaccine Relatedly, there are notable developments in that HPV litigation. The first jury trial be- gan a month ago in a California court. The plaintiff alleges that Merck’s agenda. Mr. Kennedy never The HHS secretary Gardasil HPV vaccine caused did disavow his vaccine views targets members of a her postural orthostatic in the runup to Senate confir- . tachycardia syndrome mation. He merely said he CDC committee. (POTS). wouldn’t take away anyone’s The Food and Drug Admin- vaccines. But the HHS secre- tary has many tools to undermine vaccines, and his early moves are revealing. * * * News reports this week say he’s preparing to sack members of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices. This is the group that decides whether and how to recommend vaccines for the public. Its recommendations help determine which vaccines are covered under the National Vaccine Injury Compensa- tion Program. That’s the program Congress established to compensate individuals injured by vaccines. Its aim is to limit litigation against vaccine makers so they’ll take the high risk of developing them. Plaintiffs can only sue if they first file claims with the special vaccine courts and are re- jected. Trial lawyers hate the system since it makes it harder to round up plaintiffs. Mr. Kennedy is targeting the committee members for alleged conflicts of interest. But none of the members work for drug compa- nies. They’re medical professors and physi- cians with careers studying vaccines. Perhaps Mr. Kennedy doesn’t like that they have done research showing vaccines are beneficial and may have—oh no!—even advo- cated for them. One member advised a presi- dential cancer panel during President Trump’s first term on how to boost uptake of the Human Papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine to prevent cervical cancer. If the committee withdraws a vaccine recommendation, it could be removed from the vaccine compen- sation program and open manufacturers to mass tort liability. Mr. Kennedy’s concern about conflicts of interest is especially striking given his own ties to trial lawyers who sue drug companies. He helped spearhead litigation against Merck over its HPV vaccine in which he had a 10% financial interest. He recently agreed to cede his stake to his son who works at the law firm, Wisner Baum, that is suing the company. istration in 2016 determined there was no evidence that the vaccine caused this syndrome. Merck’s vaccine trials showed no difference in the syndrome’s incidence in the placebo and vaccine groups. Yet Wisner Baum claims Merck “hid ad- verse events by dismissing them as unrelated to the vaccine.” That’s hard to reckon given that the FDA review details wide-ranging ad- verse events in trial participants, including car crashes, suicides and animal bites. More participants died from auto and plane acci- dents than were diagnosed with POTS. Independent doctors who worked on the trial were also blinded to whether patients re- ceived the vaccine when they determined if an injury was caused by the vaccine. This evi- dence may explain why the California trial wasn’t going the plaintiff firm’s way. After several weeks of hearings, lead trial lawyer Mark Lanier asked Merck to adjourn the trial and start a new one in September. Mr. Lanier says publicity around Mr. Ken- nedy’s confirmation hearing may have tainted the jurors. But the plaintiffs could have sought to delay the trial at any time. Why seek a new one after three weeks of hearings—and nota- bly—the day after Mr. Kennedy was con- firmed? Do they hope Mr. Kennedy will use his new position to help their case? Mr. Lanier told Reuters, “without elaborat- ing,” the news service said, that he expects a new scientific study by September that might help his case. Our sources say he’s referring to a study the CDC is currently conducting on POTS and adolescent vaccinations. The CDC reports to Mr. Kennedy. Merck consented to Mr. Lanier’s request, which lets it focus on defenses in federal multi-district litigation. But the Gardasil plaintiffs and trial lawyers around the country now have a very powerful friend in govern- ment who can help them. Would Louisiana doctor and Sen. Bill Cassidy, who provided a decisive vote for RFK Jr.’s confirmation, care to comment? Illinois Cancels Henry Hyde tration means the end of cancel culture, alas, no. This month board members in Du- Page County in Illinois voted 10-5 to remove former Rep. Henry Hyde’s name from the county courthouse. Was the late Congressman a closet Confederate who sup- ported slavery or fought against the union? Nope. The highly regarded Republican, who represented his suburban Chi- cago seat in Congress from 1975 to 2007, will have his legacy expunged because he opposed abortion. In 1976 he led the fight for what became known as the Hyde Amendment, which banned federal funding for women seeking to terminate their pregnancies. The amendment doesn’t ban abortion. It merely says taxpayer dollars shouldn’t fund the procedure given the pro- found matter of conscience implicated in having or paying for an abortion. One hundred and seven Democrats voted for the Hyde Amendment when it came up for a standalone vote in 1976. And for years it en- joyed strong bipartisan support, including from the likes of Joe Biden until he flipped on the is- I f you think the end of the Biden Adminis- Progressives stripped his name from a courthouse over abortion. ee sue to run for President again in 2020. If opposing abortion is grounds for cancel- lation, that rules out naming buildings for nearly every Republican law- maker, since the party plat- form included a_ pro-life plank from 1976 until the 2024 election when Roe v. Wade had been overturned. It also could cancel pro-life Democrats who weren’t rare in the party be- fore support for abortion became a progres- sive litmus test. Ending federal funding of abortion still has bipartisan support among voters. But if pro- gressive de-namers intend to broaden the cate- gories of unacceptable political positions, what about gay rights and LGBTQ? Barack Obama’s name adorns dozens of schools and roads. Should his name be removed because until his second presidential term he opposed same-sex marriage? Henry Hyde was the kind of thoughtful, prin- cipled Member who used to be far more com- mon in Congress. It’s a sign of the rotten times, and perhaps the rot in Illinois, that DuPage County Democrats want his name banished from public memory. About That 8% a Year Defense Cut he Trump Administration is moving so fast it’s hard to know what’s real and what is a media panic. An example is this week’s brouhaha over De- fense Secretary Pete Hegseth’s memo calling for Pentagon of- ficials to seek cuts of 8% a year in defense spending. That would be a recipe for national decline if true. Mr. Hegseth’s memo wasn’t a model of clar- ity, which may have been a rookie mistake if he wants to get that vast bureaucracy to follow or- ders. He later clarified in a video that the Penta- gon is merely reviewing the Biden Administra- tion budget and reallocating money to President Trump’s priorities. “We are pulling around 8%—or $50 billion— from the Biden budget. We’re planning—this is planning for this year—that we will move away from woke Biden era nonlethal programs” and instead spend elsewhere, he said. We take more comfort from assurances by Senate Armed Services Chairman Roger Wicker, who said this week that the Pentagon was sim- ply taking a fresh look at next year’s budget blueprint much like the Biden Administration did when it took office. Sen. Wicker added that the President “intends to deliver” on his cam- paign promise to rebuild the military. Mr. Wicker has credibility on the point as he has been a rare voice in Washington warning that U.S. defenses are inadequate for the dangerous world now and ahead. This doesn’t mean the Pentagon is immune Sen. Wicker says it’s not a cut in muscle. Let’s hope he’s right. from a Department of Government Efficiency exam. Mr. Hegseth mentioned nixing climate- change programs, and good riddance. How about also closing the mili- tary grocery stores that cost taxpayers more than $1 bil- lion annually? Or put a “For Sale by Elon Musk” sign on military golf courses and negotiate a dis- count for troops at the local links instead. Trim billets for noncombat positions in, say, public affairs. The really big savings would come from rationalizing the Pentagon’s health and retire- ment benefits. Yet the U.S. can’t finance the military it needs for the current world merely by looking under the Pentagon’s couch cushions. U.S. de- fense spending as a share of the economy is roughly half its Cold War peak of about 6%. Mr. Trump wants European allies to spend 5% of their economies to defense, yet we haven’t heard Mr. Trump mention a single hard target for U.S. spending on the military. The current budget trend is heading to less than 3%. Mr. Wicker says his goal is to get back to 5%. With an aggressive China, a malign Russia, nu- clear North Korea and perhaps nuclear Iran, and new missile and cyber threats to the U.S. home- land, he’s right. Let’s hope the Senator is also right about Mr. Trump’s defense intentions. But he and other Republicans in Congress will need to find their voice on defense and foreign policy to make sure Mr. Trump follows through.
