METADATA:
Source: Barrons
Date: 2025-02-24
Categories: Stocks
Title: BY KARISHMA VANJANI or weeks now, job cuts have ripped through one federal agency after another, ...
ID: 9

CONTENT:
BY KARISHMA VANJANI or weeks now, job cuts have ripped through one federal agency after another, as manag- ers complied with directives from the Department of Government Efficiency. And despite mounting litigation, the cull- ing of the government in terms of funding and people seems likely to continue. This would appear to be a significant economic shock, but so far its longer-term ramifications are unclear. While markets have reacted negatively to policies like tariffs, investors haven’t seemed con- cerned about shrinking the federal gov- ernment; in the past week alone, the S&P 500 has notched two highs. Eventually, of course, the federal fir- ings will roll into employment numbers. As Moody’s Analytics Senior Director Dante DeAntonio says, “It doesn’t look like there will be a huge shock to the sys- tem, at least in the next couple of weeks.” The federal government employs three million workers, about 1.9% of all U.S. payrolls, excluding the military. By com- parison, Walmart, the largest private employer, employs 2.1 million people. Piper Sandler says 29,000 federal work- ers were terminated as of Friday. These figures don’t account for knock- on effects from job losses at firms con- tracting with the government, the 10,000 put on administrative leave at USAID, or the 75,000 who accepted buyouts and agreed to stop work by Sept. 30. The initial impact of the firings will appear in a line item called the Unem- ployment Compensation Program for Federal Employees, released every Thursday with unemployment claims. It accounts for federal workers who claim unemployment and can prove they lost jobs through no fault of their own. The February report covers weekly and bi- weekly payrolls including Feb. 12, so it won't capture the bulk of the layoffs. The March report, out April 4, should show the hit. So far, economists haven’t been raising red flags. “Federal job cuts will likely not make a major difference for the economy,” says Stephen Stanley, an economist at San- tander Bank. “Maybe federal government payrolls are 5,000 to 10,000 weaker per month than would otherwise have been the case for a while, but a lot of those peo- ple should quickly find work elsewhere.” Like some other economists, Piper Sandler’s Nancy Lazar sees “a small im- pact on the economy,” but points to the benefits of “labor shifting to more-pro- ductive private endeavors.” When 146,000 federal jobs were lost during 2011-14 budget cuts, the private sector added seven million jobs. It helps that unemployment today is low. Of course, this argument isn’t just about the jobless number. Some govern- ment programs are just not viable prop- ositions for companies. Long-term pro- grams like scientific research, forestry services, and foreign aid may never be big profit makers. Government invest- ment is aimed at longer-term economic goals or public benefits that companies can’t—or won’t—provide. Take Emma Schultz, a 38-year-old forestry technician and mother of two who was recently laid off from the U.S. Forest Service along with thousands of her colleagues. Her job in Colorado was to sell off timber to mitigate wildfire risk and maintain healthy forests. The effect of cutbacks on any particular ranger dis- trict is unclear, but it may mean bath- rooms don’t get cleaned or hazardous trees aren’t cleared, she says. As Peter Cappelli, director of the Hu- man Resource Center at the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School, says, “You don’t have to throw a very big wrench into things [to] start to get real problems in terms of lending, how long it takes mortgages to clear and be processed, and tax refunds to come out.” That’s where the real damage may occur. 8 24 BARRON’S February 24, 2025 FUNDS The healthcare sector has a wide dispersion in returns between the best- and worst-performing stocks. Active management can pay off. What Top-Performin Healthcare Funds Are Buying Now f youre looking for growth on the cheap, you'd be hard- pressed to find a more attrac- tive stock sector today than healthcare. For decades, it has been one of the U.S. econ- omy’s most important sec- tors, yet it has underperformed the S&P 500 index for two calendar years in a row. “Over the past two years, we’ve had healthcare underperform by the larg- est amount that we have seen in more than three decades,” says Andy Acker, manager of the Janus Henderson Global Life Sciences fund. “That’s a very unusual situation.” The popular $38 billion Health Care Select Sector SPDR exchange- traded fund, which tracks the health- care stocks in the S&P 500, gained just 2.1% in 2023 and 2.5% in 2024, while the broad index soared over 20% each year. Consequently, the S&P 500 has a high price/earnings ratio of 23 versus the ETF’s 18, according to Morningstar. The growth-stock poster boy, the $76 billion Technol- ogy Select Sector SPDR ETF, has a nosebleed 28 P/E. Traditionally, healthcare stocks trade at a premium to the S&P 500 because of the sector’s consistent earnings growth. In good economic times and bad, people still need medical treatment. But the sector has experienced » numerous stumbling blocks. The most 8 obvious, Acker says, is an inability to compete with artificial-intelligence & stocks like Nvidia and Microsoft OD in the Magnificent Seven, which have soaked up the lion’s share of investors’ BY LEWIS dollars. But there also have been healthcare industry-specific issues, such as excess inventory in the life- sciences tools industry and excess patient utilization among managed- care companies. There were also pat- ent expirations for the largest pharma- ceutical companies, and Joe Biden-era regulators were capping drug prices for Medicare and blocking mergers. One of the most problematic issues was higher interest rates, as many biotech companies borrow to finance their operations in their research and drug-development stages. Many of these problems have moderated or gone away in recent months. Acker’s co-manager, Dan Lyons, points to life-sciences tools company Thermo Fisher Scientific, which makes scientific instruments and reagents, as an undervalued stock that the fund has increased its weighting in. “We've gone through a period postpandemic where the [life-sciences tools] industry grew substantially below its long-term growth [rate],” Lyons says. “That was partly due to overbuying and too much inventory across bio process and basic research tools. With Thermo, their testing busi- ness was very large as Covid was peak- ing and is now very small. So, they had to absorb [that inventory overhang], and we're coming through that now.” Lyons expects Thermo’s growth rate to normalize going forward. he healthcare sector is heterogeneous, with a wide dispersion in returns be- tween the best- and worst- performing stocks. The performance difference between a company with a blockbuster drug and one that fails to get regulatory approval can be im- mense. For this reason, active fund management can pay off, as managers with the expertise to determine in advance which drugs will be success- ful, and which won’t, can beat their benchmarks. While the indexed low- cost healthcare SPDR ETF is per- fectly suitable, supplementing one’s exposure to it with an active fund can give investors an edge. For instance, the PGIM Jennison Health Sciences fund produced a 9.9% annualized return in the past five years, besting the SPDR ETF’s 8.6% and 99% of its Morningstar fund category peers. Manager Debra Netschert pays extra attention to small- and mid-cap biotech stocks, as they can be difficult to analyze yet have the potential for blockbuster drugs. She says higher borrowing costs have held back the biotech industry overall, but there are still many individual opportunities. “Right now, we are overweight in biotech,” Netschert says. “There’s 4 Healthcare Funds Poised for a Comeback Healthcare funds have trailed the S&P 500. That could spell opportunity for bargain hunters. Total Return Fund / Ticker ‘Year —s«B-Yearr Expense Ratio Fidelity Select Pharmaceuticals / FPHAX 1.9% 9.4% 0.70 Health Care Select Sector SPDR ETF / XLV 2.1 8.6 0.08 Janus Henderson Global Life Sciences / JAGLX 2.9 8.2 0.92 PGIM Jennison Health Sciences / PHLAX 1.6 9.9 1.13 Vanguard S&P 500 ETF / VOO 23.9 14.3 0.03 Note: Returns as of Feb. 14; five-year returns are annualized. Source: Morningstar A Thermo Fisher Scientific freezer. a lot of opportunities, but it’s a stock- picker’s market. One of the things that makes biotech so difficult is just the sheer number of companies and the amount of redundant products that are being developed. That has made it really difficult for people who aren’t in the weeds in the sector to outperform.” One overlooked stock that Netschert likes is Crinetics Phar- maceuticals, which focuses on endocrine-disorder drug treatments. “Tt’s an area where there hasn’t been a lot of innovation over the past 10 years,” she says. “[Crinetics] will launch one [smaller product] within the next 12 to 18 months, but in their pipeline, they have several really excit- ing products that allow patients to get off injectable [treatments] that have major safety issues, and go on to oral [treatments] that are more convenient, more efficacious, and safer, as well.” Of course, the big success story in healthcare lately has been Eli Lilly, with its weight-loss and diabetes drugs. Fidelity Select Pharmaceu- ticals has ridden this success into being a top-performing fund, with a 27% Lilly weighting recently. Yet manager Karim Suwwan de Felipe says there’s still running room for the stock, as the obesity/diabetes problem is so vast. Still, he isn’t just investing in Lilly. His top 10 holdings also include less-well-known companies that the biggest U.S.-focused index funds don’t track, such as veterinary- drug maker Elanco Animal Health and Belgium drug company UCB. It’s in these undiscovered health- care companies where the real excite- ment for bargain hunters lies. Hl February 24, 2025 BARRON’S 25
