METADATA:
Source: Barrons
Date: 2025-02-24
Categories: Stocks
Title: SELECT SECTOR Few countries in the world stimulate the five senses as much as India. Curated by I...
ID: 14

CONTENT:
SELECT SECTOR Few countries in the world stimulate the five senses as much as India. Curated by Indagare and Mansion Global, this epic itinerary packs exclusive, insider-access moments. MANSION GLOBAL X Indagare NOVEMBER 3 - 11, 2025 LEARN MORE AND SIGN UP: INDAGARE.COM/JOURNEYS/ MANSION-GLOBAL-BEST-OF-INDIA-NOVEMBER-2025 Albert Tan/Gettylmages | © 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All rights reserved. 2E6251 Industry Action Performance of the Dow Jones U.S. Industrials, ranked by weekly percent change.* Telecommunications Utilities Health Care Oil & Gas Consumer Goods -1.83 -2.01 -2.55 -2.67 -4,50 increased snacking and the fact that the company can still grow 2026 earnings even with high cocoa prices—consensus esti- mates call for 9% earnings-per-share growth. Post Holdings is another analyst favorite: Nearly-two thirds of those tracked by FactSet are bullish and expect double- digit EPS growth in 2026, helped in part by its private-label food business. People still need to eat. That’s what once made food stocks such steady performers. But investors should beware of catching a falling butter knife. That's Shoe Business In the world of luxury bags, it isn’t often that a star quarterback is a trendsetter. Yet when Philadelphia Eagles MVP Jalen Hurts’ Super Bowl Sunday kit included a Coach Empire bag, it was the latest triumph for the brand. Its owner, Tapestry, is thriving, too. Last April, the Federal Trade Commis- sion sued to block Tapestry’s purchase of Michael Kors owner Capri Holdings, with the deal ultimately falling apart six months later. At the time, Barron’s argued that Tap- estry would be just fine without the deal, while Capri shares could fall out of fashion. Since then, Tapestry stock has more than doubled, while Capri is down 25%. This past week, the two companies’ di- verging fortunes were on display again, as Tapestry stock climbed after it announced it would sell its Stuart Weitzman footwear brand, while analysts had a lukewarm reac- tion to Capri’s investor day. On Wednesday, Tapestry said Caleres— owner of Famous Footwear and Natural- izer—would buy its Stuart Weitzman foot- wear brand for $105 million in an all-cash deal set to close this summer. Tapestry CEO Joanne Crevoiserat said the move would allow Tapestry to “maintain a sharp focus on our largest value-creation opportunities.” The news comes less than two weeks after 2.03% 1.36 0.91 0.81 0.60 Basic Materials Financials Technology Industrials Consumer Services Source: S&P Dow Jones Indices Tapestry’s beat-and-raise quarter. “We have a positive view of the transac- tion, as it leaves Tapestry well positioned to focus exclusively on the handbag market, where the company has stronger margins and strong global growth prospects,” wrote Barclays analyst Adrienne Yih, who argues the shares should trade up to $100 from a recent $84.59. It makes sense for Tapestry to focus on Coach, which has been a standout in the affordable luxury handbag market. “Coach’s New York bag family, which includes the Empire, the Brooklyn, and Times Square Tabby, highlights the brand’s innovation capabilities,” writes Jefferies analyst Ashley Helgans, who reiterated her Buy rating and $95 target on the shares, noting that if Coach’s momentum contin- ues, there could be upside to consensus estimates for the next few quarters. By contrast, Capri, which tumbled after reporting disappointing earnings earlier this month, failed to impress with its ana- lyst day, where it laid out a plan to turn around its key brands, increase full-price sales, and cut costs. “Capri set long-term targets that we con- sider to be aspirational, especially for mar- gins,” writes Raymond James analyst Rick Patel. “It’s an ambitious plan at an uncer- tain time as Capri contends with global macro headwinds, heightened competition, and fallout from execution missteps over the last one to two years.” Nor does Capri look cheap, trading at nearly 19 times anemic forward earnings, roughly double its five-year average. Tapes- try trades around 16.5 times, above its aver- age but bolstered by expected double-digit earnings growth this year and next. Fashion is notoriously fickle. Coach may not always be trendy, and Capri can make a comeback. For now, however, it still seems like Tapestry has it in the bag. Bl February 24, 2025 BARRON’S 31
