METADATA:
Source: Barrons
Date: 2025-02-24
Categories: Stocks
Title: BY ANDREW BARY omcast has a discounted stock, a lucrative business, and a restive shareholder bas...
ID: 4

CONTENT:
BY ANDREW BARY omcast has a discounted stock, a lucrative business, and a restive shareholder base. That’s a good setup for investors. Plenty could go right for the cable and en- tertainment conglomerate, including a corporate breakup, with Comcast’s low valuation offering downside pro- tection. The company has attractive assets that are valued at a fraction of their replacement cost. Comcast controls the largest broad- have price targets of over $50 a share. Yet investors don’t appear crazy about Comcast’s conglomerate model. It wouldn’t be surprising to see an activist investor like Elliott Investment Management surface this year. In Comcast’s Universal Studios in Singa- pore. The Universal theme parks are interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization, or Ebitda. Supino thinks more is needed. The proposed spinoff isn’t large relative to Comcast’s $140 billion market value early February, Wolfe Research ana- lyst Peter Supino laid out what could become an activist playbook in an : open letter to Comcast CEO and con- spwcte thet aril only trolling shareholder Brian Roberts, 65. _ get better. Supino urged the company to split into three parts: cable and broadband, NBC/Universal Sky, and cable TV networks. The company is already focused on and wouldn’t have much impact on the stock price. Comcast’s enterprise value—its market value plus net debt—is about $230 billion. A problem with the breakup sce- 1%. While he owns over $1 billion of stock, he controls one of the smaller percentage stakes of any major family- controlled company. In his letter, Supino criticized Rob- erts for his compensation of $340 mil- lion over the past 10 years—and for acquiring “zero shares of Comcast in the open market” over that span. Much of his compensation comes in stock. rea © band footprint in the U.S., with 31.8 six growth areas: consumer broad- nario is that CEO Roberts, the son of € million subscribers. It owns NBC, band, wireless, business broadband, Comcast founder Ralph Roberts, isn’t What about the competition? Com- o Universal Pictures, Universal theme streaming, parks, and movies, which on board with it. The stock trades asif cast has a better balance sheet than S parks, European satellite TV operator account for more than 60% of its reve- the scenario won’t materialize. The the No. 2 cable and broadband com- 2 Sky, the Peacock streaming service, nue. It announced plans in November company’s view is that a diversified pany, Charter Communications, and iS} and cable properties including CNBC, _ to spin offa group of cable networks model is best, as was demonstrated is returning far more cash to share- S MSNBC, USA Networks, and Bravo. in 2025, led by USA Networks, CNBC, during the pandemic. A 2022 study by _ holders. 4 The Philadelphia-based company even and MSNBC, into an unnamed com- Bain analysts found that corporate But Comcast trades at a discount to @ owns the hometown Flyers of the Na- — pany—Bravo is excluded. spinoffs often generate little or no Charter at six times estimated 2025 = tional Hockey League. Those cable businesses, with a total benefit to shareholders. Ebitda based on its enterprise value, a Barron’s Jack Hough earlier this of $7 billion in annual revenue, are Roberts controls the company against 6.6 times for Charter. That S year called Comcast “America’s most viewed as slow growers. Supino says through a small slice of supervoting could reflect an investor preference 3 complicated company,” and that high- —_ they may get valued at $8 billion to stock—some nine million shares—that for the pure-play Charter, which is a lights the simplification opportunity. $10 billion, or just four to five times give him a one-third vote. His eco- focused on broadband and cable. 5 The shares, at about $36, aredown _his estimate of annual earnings before nomic interest in the company is just Comcast’s stock weakness over the a 40% from their 2021 peak of $61 and past year reflects investor concerns 5 badly trailed the S&P 500 index over . . . about steady but modest subscriber 2 E the past one, five, 10, and 25 years. Multimedia Opportunity ; losses in broadband, its most impor- 3 2 Comeast is valued at just eight Peer comparison shows lagging Comcast trades at a real discount. tant business. Broadband and cable 5 5 times projected 2025 earnings, a dis- Ent. Value/ account for about 80% of its pretax 2 £ count to its major cable and telecom Recent 52-Week 2025E 2025E 2025E Dividend Market cash flow. € [o} [S)
