METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: Stocks
Title: FOR SALE BY PRIVATE TREATY Occupying a prime city centre location on Fleet Street in Temple Bar, ...
ID: 131

CONTENT:
FOR SALE BY PRIVATE TREATY Occupying a prime city centre location on Fleet Street in Temple Bar, close to Temple Bar Square, Trinity College PSP Licence No: 002273 An extensively refurbished 101 key hotel and ground floor retail unit, including the highly popular Hellfire Restaurant at 7 Westmoreland Street 353 1673 1609 Li E: daniel.oconnor@jll.com a AMA. Available with the benefit of majority freehold title and vacant possession of the hotel and restaurant elements, accompanied by high quality rental income from Tesco lreland Limited. S\N A profitable hotel business with exciting scope for further enhancement including an expansion of the existing F&B offering to include capturing some of the lucrative Temple Bar lunch, dinner, and all-day 22 February/23 February 2025 except in markets.” Yes, US stocks are at a record high. But, in a rare sight, Europe is streaking ahead of them. So the S&P 500 has gained a little under 4 per cent so far this year — very solid. But even in dollars, the UK’s FTSE 100 is up 6.6 per cent and most European indices are well in to double figures, with defence stocks off to the races. This rep- resents a meaningful rotation out of the US and into Europe — the precise oppo- site of that American exceptionalism we were all led to believe would dominate the investment landscape for the year. BofA’s survey shows a huge leap in the proportion of investors expecting global equities to be the best-performing asset class of the year, and a similarly huge decline in those expecting the US to lead the way. French bank Société Générale is touting tomorrow's elections in Ger- many as the start of a “new chapter” for European markets, leaving the region in a position to close the vast gap in valua- tions with the US. Meanwhile, the price of the oldest and best safe retreat of them all — gold — is absolutely ripping higher, despite rea- sonably generous yields on offer from US Treasuries. The shiny stuff is up 12 per cent so far this year, adding to the 27 per cent gains of 2024 and taking out numerous record highs. UK precious metals broker Sharps Pixley wrote excitedly this week about how gold has “sprinted” into 2025. “Trump’s presidency has brought with it considerable uncertainty and angst, increasing demand for gold as a safe haven,” it said. Uncertainty and angst — music to a gold bug’s ears. The performance of US markets is not bad enough to force a change of direc- tion from the new president, but it is exceptional for the wrong reasons. Investors are taking note, and quietly tiptoeing away. The property also boasts huge development potential, with planning granted for an additional 114 net guestrooms, with 104 guestrooms on Fleet Street and a further 10 guestrooms above / Westmoreland Street. bar trade. +353 1673 1608 Senior Vice President Executive Vice President T: 4 ] E isobel.horan@jll.com Analyst T: +353 1673 1638 E: jayne. brennan@ijll.com Saturday 22 February / Sunday 23 February 2025 STYLE | TRAVEL | BOOKS | ARTS | FOOD & DRINK LifeéoArts
