METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: Stocks
Title: MC RNINGSTAR www.morningstar.co.uk reoeeeTy « lwreeimes = ARCHITOR TWEE | CARDENE gllouse<cHome A...
ID: 130

CONTENT:
MC RNINGSTAR www.morningstar.co.uk reoeeeTy « lwreeimes = ARCHITOR TWEE | CARDENE gllouse<cHome AnH with membroemn oem wird oto ligt record ofa disappeared landscape’ 18 * FT Weekend Investors keep calm and carry on as west’s Europe’s double transition should pay dividends ndertaking one existential transformation is a challenge. But two? That's the situation Europe finds itself in. Until recently, its policy priority was to build a net zero system. After a rough geopolitical week in which the US walked back its implicit protective role, that is rapidly being supplanted by the need to rebuild defence capabilities. That makes for a double whopper of investments. A rough estimate of Europe’s additional energy spending needs comes to €300bn a year from now to 2030. Raising the percentage of GDP for defence to, say, 3.5 per cent implies a similar level of investment, before factoring in economic growth. Markets have been clear on which they think will take priority. Over the past year, defence stocks such as Rheinmetall and Safran have outperformed groups tied to the green transition such as European utilities. For all that, finding the money for both need not be insurmountable. We are mostly talking about two different pockets. Defence spending is the job of governments. And while some countries don't have a lot of debt capacity, the EU’s debt-to-GDP ratio is less than 90 per cent. Joint borrowing is politically fraught. But there is room to do it. By contrast, the majority of the clean energy investment is going to be Kardashian gives flagging Nike business a welcome swoosh Jogging is not what made Kim Kardashian famous. No matter. The star of reality-TV promo vehicle Keeping Up with the Kardashians has scored a tie-up for her Skims underwear and “athleisure” brand with Nike, to create NikeSkims. It is a curious move. Nike's ambassadors have been sporting gladiators such as Tiger Woods and Roger Federer. But Skims has grown quickly. Five years into existence, its annual revenue is more than $1bn. And women’s sport is a growth area for all consumer companies. Like a runner trailing behind in a race, new-ish chief executive Elliott Hill needs to dig deep to catch up with the pack. Last summer, Nike published year- end results and forecasts that were so poor they cost it a fifth of its market capitalisation. In the two quarters since, the group’s total revenue has declined by a tenth compared with the previous year. Its market cap remains over $100bn, but its share price has fallen by more than half its 2021 peak. What has gone wrong? Under John Donahue, the management consultant and tech executive who was CEO between 2020 and 2024, Nike emphasised direct-to-consumer sales over those at retail partners. It also lacks a “killer app” shoe — the kind that dominates the zeitgeist. In streetwear, trends come courtesy of influencers and social media, rather than the television ads that made Nike iconic. Kardashian, whose 300mn or more social media followers have powered a billion-dollar fortune, fits financed by private enterprise. A big chunk relates to technologies that are in the money already, such as solar and batteries, whose deployment will not mean higher overall costs for consumers. That leaves a few areas of the energy transition looking exposed. Persuading households to install heat pumps may well require government funding. The constraints of the UK mean that support for carbon capture and storage, a relatively expensive abatement tech, is already up for the chop. Nor is money the only bottleneck. Lots of investment means lots of demand for materials, equipment, the bill. The commercial terms have yet to be disclosed, but Nike could send Kardashian's business into a new league. That still leaves Nike with the task of turning around its consumer and retail business. In its fiscal 2025 first quarter, ballooning unsold goods locked up nearly $700mn of its cash. Eventual necessary discounting and write-offs will occur over quarters. And the lead times for getting new products on the shelves can be years. Nonetheless, the group’s market cap jumped more than $6bn this week on the news of its celebrity alliance. This deal suggests a vibe shift in the world of sport. Nike's appeal was about making weekend warriors feel like Olympians. Its next sprint may be about catering to those who just want to scroll on their phones while wearing sweatpants. In 2025, corporate eccentricity is a key feature and not a bug Are chief executives getting more eccentric? It might seem so. From xenophobic rants on earnings calls to F-bombs and invocations of classical German philology, US corporate chieftains are ditching the script with abandon. It can be a red flag when the boss goes off piste. But, in some cases, it might be what turns oddball ideas into corporate empires. Take Palantir founder Alex Karp, who describes his software consultancy as a weapon for killing enemies of the west. Meta Platforms founder Mark Zuckerberg is guided by less violent visions, sinking $60bn into smart glasses and virtual reality headsets Smaller glacial regions experience the largest decline % loss of volume between 2000 and 2023, by glacial region =35 -30 -25 122 50 950 -20 -15 -10 | | | 275 ! Height of bar represents volume of glacial ice in each region in 2000 (gigatonnes) The melting of the world’s glaciers is “accelerating alarmingly”, with Europe’s Alps and Pyrenees the worst affected, research has found. The glaciers in these regions have lost about 40 per cent of their volume in less than a quarter ofa century. About 273bn tonnes of ice had disappeared each year on average — the equivalent to 30 years of water consumption by the world’s population. Glaciers lost record mass in 2022 and 2023, the researchers said, years in which global warming worsened. The melting of glaciers is linked to increased risk of sea level rise, flooding and, as a later consequence, drought. Source: University of Edinburgh | Europe’s defence orders | roll in Backlog, actual and estimated for 2024-25 (€bn) Leonardo MMB BAE Systems | 200 iq eee Thales § Rheinmetall 150 100 - 2020 BAE numbers converted to euros at €1.21 Source: Visible Alpha 2025 components and construction personnel. Energy and defence have different supply chains, but there will be some overlap. That’s a recipe for cost inflation and delays. Yet Europe underinvests in productive assets, spending an average of 15 per cent of GDP on it compared to about 17 per cent in the US, according to Goldman Sachs. Done right, domestic spending can in time result in longed-for growth, spilling over in demand for chemicals, plastics and other beleaguered segments of the European economy. Europe's daunting transition crush is amply worth doing. since 2020. Old-world companies risk distracting from the product. In the new world, where investors seek abnormal returns from not-yet-realised cash flows, eccentricity is the product. The shift to private markets raises the value of unconventional thinking. Companies seeking capital no longer woo buttoned-down institutions, but eccentric venture capitalists. Professors at Essec Business School and Stanford used machine learning to identify “performative atypicality” in company earnings calls. Their analysis measured transcripts to see how much they differed from those of similar companies. They found that companies whose executives deviate from the norm won higher earnings estimates from analysts, though actual earnings often disappointed. Elon Musk remains the eccentric CEO par excellence. He has, at times, proposed nuking Mars, thrown out far-fetched targets that he then fails to meet, and suggested that carmaker Tesla is worth $10tn. It’s no accident that eccentricity is more common in the US. One factor is the greater prevalence of supervoting shares, which let founders drive the bus in the direction of their choice. Morningstar found at least eight shareholder motions that would have passed if not for insiders with outsized votes skewing the outcome, including two at Meta Platforms. The researchers found that in times of rising stocks, deviation from the regular script increases. Perhaps slower growth and more checks on CEO power explain why Europe has failed to embrace corporate eccentricity as much as the US — which in turn might be why it has yet to produce a Tesla, a Palantir or a Meta. Maybe the continent might have to embrace a greater sense of strangeness. Central Europe -5 Caucasus/Middle East Western Canada/US Scandinavia S)7724 Southern Andes S249) High Mountain Asia 16,497) Alaska 22,525) Greenland 3,372 Iceland S507) 2Valbard 125936) Russian Arctic 2493058 Arctic Canada north 26,336 Antarctica Sign up for The Climate Graphic: Explained newsletter f.comJ/climate Katie Martin The Long View s the transatlantic alliance unravels before our eyes, the ups and down (mostly ups) in markets give the impression investors are humming a tune: “It’s the end of the world as we know it, and I feel fine.” Matters of war and peace have, of course, dominated the week’s news. Donald Trump and his administration have picked a side in the conflict in Ukraine and, to the astonishment of Europe, it is Russia’s. Trump's assertions that Ukraine is at fault for Russia's invasion and that its president, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, is a dictator, mark a shocking nadir for the postwar order. The alliances that have sought to keep the peace for decades are at best disrupted and deeply damaged. And yet, it appears that investors are saying “la la la, can’t hear you”. Major markets are performing well, and many of the typical signs of fear are absent. The question that keeps cropping up is when this trend will break. It is not unusual for markets to remain upbeat when geopolitics resem- ble a bin fire. The grim attack on Israel in 2023 and subsequent pummelling of Gaza left no serious impact on most investors’ portfolios, for example, despite the tensions with Iran. Investors, even professional ones, are people, too. It’s not that they don’t care about human suffering, or the risk of it. It’s just that conflicts are generally too well contained in smaller markets to drag down their performance. Nonethe- less, the relentlessly cheerful tone in markets right now is jarring. US stocks hit a record high earlier this week, with the S&P 500 index reaching above 6,100. At the more bullish end of the spectrum, research house Capital Economics has reiterated its call for the index to hit 7,000 by the end of the year, describing the target as “comparatively conservative’. alliance ruptures How about the classic hidey-holes that investors seek out in such times? US government bonds are doing reasonably well after ashaky start to 2025, but they are not blasting higher, leaving 10-year yields in the region of 4.5 per cent. The Swiss franc — a key barometer of mar- ket nerves — is going the best part of nowhere this year, and the Japanese yen is up, but for domestic reasons, not asa global shock absorber. On many measures, investors are flat- out bullish. Bank of America’s latest reg- ular survey of portfolio managers is based on responses gathered before the latest deterioration in global relations, but it still captures the hair-raising early ‘Markets are consistently seeming to adopt the most benign interpretation of each and every headline’ weeks of Trump 2.0. It shows investors running their lowest allocation to cash — again a retreat for the faint of heart — in 15 years, at 3.5 per cent of portfolios. The message is to keep calm and carry on, to keep the focus on the global econ- omy. “While we expect volatility to pick up in the near term amid a range of macro uncertainties, favourable funda- mentals should continue to support glo- bal equities’ next leg up,” wrote Solita Marcelli, chief investment officer for the Americas at UBS’s wealth management division. It does not take a deep scratch beneath the surface, however, to uncover the nerves. “Markets are consistently seeming to adopt the most benign interpretation of each and every headline,” said Matt King at Satori Insights. “Yet the assets doing the rallying have seldom been those most investors expected. US exceptionalism can be seen everywhere
