METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: Stocks, Bonds
Title: By DENNY JACOB President Trump’s media company is moving forward with plans to create a strate- g...
ID: 71

CONTENT:
By DENNY JACOB President Trump’s media company is moving forward with plans to create a strate- gic acquisition fund that aims to buy, merge or join with companies that support the president’s America-First poli- cies. The parent company of Trump’s Truth Social platform said the venture will be backed by select partners. Trump Media & Technology Group is looking for compa- nies that would benefit from the company’s technology and branding, and have the ability to function autonomously should the company amass a collection of subsidiaries. Board members voted to au- thorize the move Friday. “We’re hoping to expand our tech footprint even as we branch out into finance and other industries,” said Chair- man Devin Nunes. Trump Media earlier in the year applied for trademarks for a series of exchange-traded funds and separately-managed accounts with plans to launch them from this year onward. The expansion into finance opens the door to offering Trump-endorsed investments to everyday Americans. Shares closed Friday above $26.00. The stock is down around 35% over the past year. The sooner you recognize the signs of autism, the sooner you can help. ScreenforAutism.org x autism speaks BENJAMIN GIRETTE/BLOOMBERG NEWS B12 | Saturday/Sunday, February 22 - 23, 2025 KK KK THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. HEARDs STREET FINANCIAL ANALYSIS & COMMENTARY The top design job at luxury brands is starting to look like the career of a star athlete: well paid but often brutally short. That isn’t a very healthy sign for the industry. Fashion designers have left or been pushed out of luxury com- panies in high numbers over the past year. This month, Gucci be- came the latest big label to say it is replacing its creative director. According to Bank of America, 13 brands have replaced their cre- ative heads recently. The list in- cludes Celine, Chanel, Bottega Veneta, Valentino, Tom Ford and Fendi. The industry is shaking up its creative talent partly because de- mand has been weak. The num- ber of luxury goods sold globally collapsed by more than a fifth between 2022 and 2024, accord- ing to estimates from the con- sulting firm Bain & Co. The fall in volumes has been obscured by price increases, but brands can’t rely on that for much longer. The industry has lost around 50 million customers over the past two years—mainly middle-income shoppers who can no longer afford increasingly ex- pensive luxury baubles. Brands realize they need to come up with exciting new products to get people spending again. If a brand hires the right cre- ative director, its fortunes can change dramatically. Star de- signer Hedi Slimane helped sales double during stints at Saint Laurent and Celine. Alessandro Michele, who was the predeces- sor to Gucci’s recently departed artistic director, Sabato De Sarno, added more than $5 bil- lion to the brand’s sales in the nearly eight years he spent at the top. For the first five years of his tenure—when demand for Gucci was red-hot—shares in the brand’s owner, Kering, quadru- pled. Brands pay top dollar for that kind of talent. Creative bosses at the biggest luxury houses, such as Louis Vuitton, can earn $10 million or more a year as their base salary, as well as bonuses tied to the brand’s performance, according to Alice Bouleau, a partner at luxury-industry head- hunting firm Sterling Interna- The Toughest Job in Fashion Brands are churning through creative directors while trying to revive sales Gucci and other labels that hire star designers are more vulnerable to boom-and-bust cycles. tional. Even the best designers even- tually lose steam and need to be replaced. A luxury brand’s share price and operating profit tend to peak once a designer has been in the job for five years, based on an analysis by Bernstein’s Luca Solca. But these days, creative di- rectors would be lucky to last that long. Contracts for the role now typically run for three years, with an option to extend if things are going well. Gucci’s De Sarno only got two years in the job. Pe- ter Hawkings, who stepped down at Tom Ford last summer, lasted less than a year. Brands are stepping in faster if they think a turnaround isn’t showing enough promise. This Gucci annual sales €12 billion Designer 10 Alessandro Michele's tenure 2012 ‘15 '20 24 Note: €1 = $1.05 Source: the company might be because the industry has become more focused on shareholder returns. And as lux- ury labels have grown in size, there is more to lose when a makeover attempt isn’t working. But two years is too little time for even a talented designer to pull off a successful reboot. The chopping and changing is confus- ing for customers and can make it look like the brand isn’t confi- dent in its vision. Cult labels such as The Row or Phoebe Philo’s Celine were initially a slow burn because it took time to build a consistent brand image. The churn is disruptive for in- vestors, too. It can take 18 months from when a new de- signer is hired to get his or her new collection onto the shop floor. Products made by the old creative director must be purged at a discount, which hurts prof- its. This is one reason why Gu- cci’s operating margin sank from 36% to 21% over the past two years, although falling sales played the biggest role. Luxury brands that like to hire star designers, such as Gucci and Burberry, are more vulnerable to boom-and-bust cycles. A well- known name creates buzz and ex- citement, but sales can become volatile when shoppers tire of trendy looks. More conservative brands such as Hermés favor a team approach, so change at the top causes less upheaval. The ar- tistic directors at major jewelry brands such as Cartier tend to be more under the radar, so they can be replaced with no apparent disruption. Italian puffer-jacket maker Moncler has a different approach to creative talent. Instead of hav- ing a single designer, it works with a rotating cast of artists for its Genius Project to release ex- clusive versions of its down jack- ets. The collection only generates about a tenth of the brand’s over- all sales, but keeps things inter- esting for shoppers and creates a halo effect for Moncler’s more everyday products. A risk from all the creative churn is that talented designers start to see the artistic-director role as a poisoned chalice. Simi- lar to a head-coaching role for a sports franchise, the top designer often takes the fall when sales slow, even though deeper prob- lems such as a weak supply chain or marketing might be at fault. “It is a team effort but the first person to lose their job is usually the artistic director,” says Claudia D’Arpizio, a senior partner at Bain & Co. Designers might only get one or two short stints as artistic director before their careers are effectively over. The luxury industry feels stale, and brand owners are feeling heat from their shareholders. New faces in the design studio should help excite customers again, but more patience is needed toward designers trying to refresh brands. —Carol Ryan A model of a ZEROe hydrogen fuel cell powered aero engine, developed by Airbus, on display at last year’s VivaTech conference in Paris. Flying Green Doesn’t Matter Anymore Though investors’ attention has been focused on the failure of Nikola, the electric-truck maker that briefly had a higher market capitalization than Ford Motor, a similar trend has been quietly play- ing out in aviation. It was almost yesterday that this industry aimed for a utopian to- morrow of electric and hydrogen aircraft. And, judging by the rally in the stocks of the makers of air taxis—properly called electric verti- cal takeoff and landing vehicles, or eVTOL—this future is still on the table. Joby Aviation and Archer Aviation, which report earnings next week, are up 48% and 213%, respectively, since the Nov. 5 elec- tion. Investors seem to be putting a lot of weight on statements by President Trump and the new transportation secretary, Sean Duffy, arguing that the U.S. must win the eVTOL race with China. Look beyond these top air-taxi players, however, and in-develop- ment clean-aviation marvels have been dropping like flies. Germany’s two main eVTOL startups, Lilium and Volocopter, are now undergoing insolvency proce- dures. Like Nikola, many of these ventures were in great part a leg- acy of the blank-check special-pur- pose acquisition company boom that overtook Wall Street in 2020 and 2021. But they eventually ran out of cash following a string of setbacks. Other zero-emission aviation projects have been paused, includ- ing ATR’s hybrid-electric turboprop, as well as Airbus’s own eVTOL and its ZEROe project, aimed at launch- ing a hydrogen-powered commer- cial airliner by 2035. Airbus Chief Executive Guillaume Faury told analysts Thursday that hydrogen infrastructure and fuel cells are scaling up too slowly. That even Airbus—once the industry’s green champion—is pulling back on sustainability speaks volumes. Is the main problem technologi- cal, as Airbus claims? To a certain extent, yes: The viability of all of these vehicles depends on imma- ture technologies. Crucially, getting aircraft certi- fied is much harder than commer- cializing a truck. In 2022, the Fed- eral Aviation Administration decided to classify eVTOL vehicles in a special category—which would be the first new category of civil aircraft since helicopters in 1940— and later proposed quite stringent rules. This makes sense, because these vehicles need to be able to withstand inclement weather while transitioning from vertical to hori- zontal flight, often involving multi- ple tilting rotors. Hydrogen aircraft are also eyed suspiciously by regulators because of, among other reasons, the high flammability of the gas—as the in- famous 1937 Hindenburg disaster etched in everybody’s minds. But these obstacles aren’t unsur- mountable if enough cash is thrown at them. For one, Joby’s aircraft has already flown more than a 100 flights with a pilot onboard, and is relatively advanced in the certifica- tion process. Likewise, British- American startup ZeroAvia has made significant advances in hy- drogen fuel-cell propulsion for small planes. It may be that funds are merely shifting to front-runners, including the Californians Joby and Archer. The former recently raised a fur- ther $500 million from Toyota. The latter brought in $300 million from institutional investors earlier this month, and is pivoting toward de- fense applications. Still, it seems undeniable that this sector was greatly inflated by green marketing at a time when “flight shaming” was a real con- cern, and big eVTOL orders were smart public-relations moves for the likes of American Airlines and United Airlines. The practical next steps involve sticking a battery in a short-range regional plane. This is what ATR was doing, as well as Airbus. But regional flights make up just 10% of commercial aviation, offer- ing would-be disrupters high risk with limited reward. By removing the green hype, the Trump era could end up being quite unkind to them. —Jon Sindreu Total disclosed funding for future air mobility $7 billion 6 5 2 mum il nN 2017 ‘20 os Ww ray *Through Aug. 26 Source: McKinsey It’s Not Business as Usual for UnitedHealth A backdrop of scrutiny on the industry explains sharp market reaction to investigation Normally, a Justice Department probe wouldn’t rattle investors in UnitedHealth Group so much. Past investigations have done little to stop the company from becoming the dominant player in the health insurance and services sector. But these are far from normal times for the healthcare industry, and particularly for UnitedHealth, the undisputed leader, with a mar- ket capitalization of more than $400 billion. Even before the killing of its in- surance unit CEO ignited a na- tional debate on American health- care, scrutiny of the industry was mounting. In recent weeks, UnitedHealth’s stock has also been under pres- sure from investor Bill Ackman, who has been attacking it on X— the platform formerly known as Twitter—in a campaign he contin- ued on Friday. All this helps explain why a Wall Street Journal article Friday morning revealing a new civil fraud investigation by the Justice Department into the company’s Medicare billing practice wiped out some $30 billion of United- Health’s market capitalization in morning trading, with the stock down around 9%. In the Medicare Advantage sys- tem, insurers get lump-sum pay- ments from the federal govern- ment to oversee enrollees’ Medicare benefits. When patients have certain diagnoses, the pay- ments go up, creating an incentive to diagnose more diseases. A se- ries of articles in The Wall Street Journal last year showed that Medicare paid UnitedHealth bil- lions of dollars for questionable diagnoses. On Friday, UnitedHealth said in a statement that “any suggestion that our practices are fraudulent is outrageous and false.” The com- pany added it was unaware of the “launch” of any “new” activity as reported by The Wall Street Jour- nal. UnitedHealth is already facing a longer-running Justice Depart- ment antitrust probe and a sepa- rate Justice Department lawsuit to block its $3.3 billion planned ac- quisition of home-health company Amedisys on antitrust grounds. In- vestigations against UnitedHealth and its peers are common, and Wall Street typically views them as prolonged issues that eventu- ally end in a settlement. Friday’s sharp decline “strikes us as perhaps overly harsh and would imply the highest settle- ment/fine in the history of the Medicare program, by a significant margin,” wrote Whit Mayo, an an- alyst at Leerink Partners. Addi- tionally, this probe might have been launched under the Biden ad- ministration, making it unclear whether the Trump administration will vigorously pursue the case, wrote Scott Fidel, an analyst at Stephens. And yet, the subject of fraud and abuse in healthcare does dovetail with Republican priorities and Elon Musk’s Department of Government Efficiency agenda, as well as the hunt for budget sav- ings in Congress. The intensified scrutiny also sent peers in the Medicare space such as Humana and CVS Health down Friday, by around 5% and 2% respectively. But the issue could be more acute for UnitedHealth because it appears to have higher risk scores—reflecting more diag- noses and therefore higher pay- ments—versus competitors, noted TD Cowen’s Ryan Langston, refer- ring to his firm’s own analysis of data by member types through 2023. The drumbeat of negative head- lines is impossible to ignore—and even harder to price in. The healthcare industry is at a reckon- ing point, and as the biggest in- surer in the U.S., UnitedHealth carries risks that are difficult for investors to look past. —David Wainer CLAUDIA GRECO/REUTERS DEENA SO’OTEH Medical Bills It’s surprisingly easy to pay a lot less than you've been charged C3 CULTURE | SCIENCE | POLITICS | HUMOR EVE W THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. Dollar Diplomacy American geopolitical influence in the 21st century Books C7 KKK K Dept Has Always Been The Ruin of Great Powers. Is the U.S. Next? may “sink in some future age, every minister hopes it may still keep afloat in his own.” For this reason, public debt is “extremely danger- ous...in the hands of a precipitant and ambitious administration.” His conclusion was prophetic: “An expense, whether sustained at home or abroad, whether a waste of the present, or an anticipation of future, revenue, if it bring no proper return, is to be reck- oned among the causes of national ruin.” Economists have long sought in vain a thresh- old that defines how much debt is too much. My own formulation of . . Ad F ’s idea fe From Habsburg Spain to Trump’s America, there’s attention on the crucial historieal _,, EeStYEAl, J>P P ’ the U.S. spent . . lationship bet debt i J no escaping the consequences of spending more on (interest. plus the repayment of $1107 trillion interest payments than on defense. principal) and national security (ex- def penditure on defense, including in- on derense By Niall Ferguson vestent in research and develop- : and $1.12 The crucial threshold is the point rio 0 where debt service exceeds defense service, IS THAT THE HEADY SCENT OF HUBRIS, wafting through the winter air of Washington, D.C.? So bold has President Trump been in the first month of his second term that nervous Europeans won- der if the American republic is now unabashedly an empire. Trump renames seas. He reclaims ca- nals. He demands Greenland. He trolls Canada. His proposal for peace in Gaza is wholesale reset- tlement of its population. His plan for peace in Ukraine begins to look a lot like partition. In the ancient Hellenic world, hubris was the kind of pride or arrogance that led a mortal to defy the gods. But hard on its heels there usually came Nemesis, the goddess of divine retribution. The historian prefers to exclude deities from his narrative. He discerns the more prosaic operation of budgetary constraints. For it is these, not gods, that set limits on the geopolitical ambitions of re- publics and empires alike. What I call Ferguson’s Law states that any great power that spends more on debt service than on defense risks ceasing to be a great power. The insight is not mine but originates with the Scottish political theorist Adam Ferguson, whose “Essay on the History of Civil Soci- ety” (1767) brilliantly identified the perils of ex- cessive public debt. Ferguson understood what modern economists call the “tax-smoothing” properties of public debt: By borrowing to pay for a war or some other emergency, a government can spread the cost over multiple generations of taxpayers. But he also saw the catch. “The growing burden,” he observed, is “gradually laid” and, though a nation spending, after which the centripetal forces of the aggregate debt burden tend to pull apart the geopolitical grip of a great power, leaving it vulnerable to military challenge. The striking thing is that, for the first time in nearly a century, the U.S. began violating Fergu- son’s Law last year. Annual defense spending—to be precise, national defense consumption expendi- tures and gross investment—was $1.107 trillion in 2024, according to the Bureau of Economic Analy- sis (BEA), while federal expenditure on interest Please turn to the next page Niall Ferguson is the Milbank Family Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University and founder of the advisory firm Greenmantle. Inside PERSONAL SPACE UKRAINE MOVING TARGETS Wealthy parents now Russia’s invasion Joe Queenan expect tutors to do their kids’ schoolwork for them. It’s a recipe for lifelong incompetence, warns Katie Roiphe. C3 isn’t just about conquering terri- tory. It also aims to erase Ukrainian history. C4 recalls when his father said they would shovel Grace Kelly’s driveway. C4 Saturday/Sunday, February 22 - 23, 2025 | C1 C2 | Saturday/Sunday, February 22 - 23, 2025 KK KK THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. REVIEW Can the U.S. Escape A Future of Debt and Decline? Continued from the prior page payments (the government long ago gave up on paying down principal) topped out at $1.124 trillion. These outlays can also be ex- pressed as percentages of gross do- mestic product. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO), which uses a narrower definition of defense spending than the BEA, places it at 2.9% of GDP for last year. Net inter- est payments (adjusting for the in- terest received by bonds held by government agencies) amounted to 3.1%. We have seen nothing like this since the era of isolationism. Be- tween 1962 and 1989, U.S. defense spending averaged 6.4% of GDP; debt service was less than a third of that at 1.8%. Even after the end of the Cold War, the federal govern- ment was still spending, on average, roughly twice as much on national security as on interest on the debt. The fact that the U.S. is currently projected to spend a rising share of its GDP on interest payments and a falling share on defense means that American power is much more fis- cally constrained than most people realize. By 2049, according to the CBO’s latest long-term budget pro- jection, net interest payments on the federal debt will have risen to 4.9% of GDP. If defense spending maintains its recent share of discre- tionary spending, it will amount to half that share of GDP. Nor is there any real possibility that defense spending will increase dramatically. Because such spending is discretionary, it has to be appro- priated by Congress every year, un- like spending on entitlement pro- grams (which is mandatory) and interest payments (nonpayment of which would be default). If anything, budgetary constraints are likely to put downward pressure on defense spending in the decades ahead. Empires Crippled by Debt Ferguson’s Law—that it is dan- gerous for a great power to spend more on debt service than on de- fense—is borne out by history. In the 16th century, the Habsburg kings of Castile reigned over the first truly global empire. Revenues from American silver mines were crucial to financing Spain’s expansive mili- tary endeavors. Charles V and Philip II also enjoyed substantial tax reve- nues from their Castilian subjects. But with every passing decade, the Spanish empire relied more on borrowing. It issued juros, long- term bonds held mostly by the Cas- Violating Ferguson’s Law The U.S.S. Bataan in New York Harbor. Rising interest payments threaten to constrain U.S. military spending. Right: Philip 1V of Spain blamed government debt for his country’s ‘enormous ruin’ in the 17th century. Far right: British Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain shakes hands with Adolf Hitler after signing the Munich Agreement, Sept. 1938. Britain’s policy of appeasement was driven by its inability to spend more on rearmament. Spanish crown defaulted on part of its debt five times. Not coinciden- tally, the growth in per capita GDP that had characterized the “Golden Age” of the 16th century was fol- lowed by contraction in the 17th century. This in turn reduced the crown’s tax revenues. The geopolitical repercussions were unavoidable. In 1640 Portugal regained its independence after 60 years of dynastic union. The Peace of Westphalia in 1648 marked the formal recognition of Dutch inde- pendence and the effective end of Spain’s predominance in Europe. The Treaty of the Pyrenees in 1659 further underscored its diminished status, as Spain ceded territory to France. Perhaps the most familiar case of a great power succumbing to fiscal constraints is that of Bourbon France in its contest with Hanoverian Brit- ain in the late 18th century. Of all the great powers, France had the great- est difficulty in evolving a stable sys- tem of public debt management. There was no central bank that could issue banknotes. There was no liquid bond market where govern- ment debt could be bought and sold. The tax system had in large measure U.S. outlays for interest on the national debt outpaced defense spending last year for the first time in nearly a century. The gap is projected to grow. U.S. net interest payments and defense spending as a share of GDP 10% Defense* Net interest outlays
