METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: Stocks
Title: By Sierra Dawn McClain recent meme showed a young man shopping for Valentine’s Day. “Impress her ...
ID: 51

CONTENT:
By Sierra Dawn McClain recent meme showed a young man shopping for Valentine’s Day. “Impress her with some- thing expensive,” the text said. The man then turned around to reveal the gift: a carton of eggs. Egg prices rose 15% in January and were up 53% year over year, according to the latest consumer-price index. Politicians are predictably blam- ing each other. White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt told re- porters on Jan. 28 that the U.S. faces an egg shortage because “the Biden administration and the De- partment of Agriculture directed the mass killing” of millions of chickens. She’s right that government-directed chicken killings contributed to the egg shortage, but she glosses over several complications. We need a more precise approach to bird flu than killing or vaccinating chickens en masse. The true culprit behind the egg shortage is Mother Nature. A severe strain of avian influenza that broke out in the U.S. in 2022—and is still spreading—has affected more than 160 million birds. Ms. Leavitt’s comment about “mass killing” referred to the USDA’s longstanding policy of kill- ing all chickens on a farm with a bird-flu outbreak. A 2002 federal law gives the department the au- thority to “depopulate” flocks to stop the spread of disease. The Obama, first-term Trump and Bi- den administrations mandated mass killing to stop bird flu from spreading during the 2014-15, 2017 and 2022-25 outbreaks, respec- tively. The department compen- sates farmers for part of their losses, but farms still take signifi- cant hits. In a Feb. 16 interview on CBS’s “Face the Nation,” National Eco- nomic Council Director Kevin Has- sett indicated that the Trump ad- ministration might move away from the depopulation policy. “The Biden plan was to just, you know, kill chickens,” he said. The administra- tion needs “better ways, with biose- curity and medication and so on” to control the virus and avoid killing chickens. Mr. Hassett’s words came two days after Zoetis, an animal- health company, announced that the Trump administration had issued it a conditional license for its avian influenza vaccine. The USDA didn’t respond to questions about its new bird-flu strategy, but it plans to make an announcement soon. The department has long focused on responding to outbreaks rather than preventing them. But the virus is complicated and although scien- tists have researched it for decades, an immediate fix isn’t likely. If President Trump is considering an end to the depopulation ap- proach, he should weigh the bene- fits and drawbacks. The practice of killing all birds on an infected farm is grim. Any farmer who’s had to kill livestock during a disease out- break knows how devastating it is, economically and personally. But the policy also can be effec- tive. Killing birds at an infected farm makes it less likely the virus will spread elsewhere. Live birds are highly contagious; dead ones aren’t. If a single chicken gets infected, the virus usually hits the entire flock. Chickens that contract the virus have little chance of survival; 90% to 100% of infected birds die. Many veterinarians consider it more hu- mane to kill a flock quickly—by gas- sing, for instance—rather than let- ting the birds suffer. If the administration keeps the policy, it should use the most humane killing methods available. Vaccination also has pros and cons. Vaccines are preventive, and vaccinated birds are less likely to contract and spread the flu. Current THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. PUBLISHED SINCE 1889 BY DOW JONES & COMPANY Lachlan Murdoch Executive Chairman, News Corp Rupert Murdoch Chairman Emeritus, News Corp Emma Tucker Editor in Chief Liz Harris, Managing Editor Charles Forelle, Deputy Editor in Chief Elena Cherney, Senior Editor; David Crow, Executive Editor; Chip Cummins, Newswires; Taneth Evans, Digital; Alex Martin, Print & Writing; Michael W. Miller, Features & Weekend; Bruce Orwall, Enterprise; Philana Patterson, Audio; Amanda Wills, Video Paul A. Gigot Editor of the Editorial Page Gerard Baker, Editor at Large EDITORIAL AND CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS: 1211 Avenue of the Americas, New York, N.Y., 10036 Telephone 1-800-DOWJONES Robert Thomson Chief Executive Officer, News Corp Almar Latour Chief Executive Officer and Publisher DOW JONES MANAGEMENT: Mae M. Cheng, EVP, General Manager, Leadership; David Cho, Barron’s Editor in Chief; Jason P, Conti, General Counsel, Chief Compliance Officer; Dianne DeSevo, Chief People Officer; Jared DiPalma, Chief Financial Officer; Artem Fishman, Chief Technology Officer; David Martin, Chief Revenue Officer, Business Intelligence; Dan Shar, EVP, General Manager, Wealth & Investing; Ashok Sinha, Chief Communications Officer; Josh Stinchcomb, EVP & Chief Revenue Officer, WSJ / Barron’s Group; Sherry Weiss, Chief Marketing Officer [> DOW JONES | News Crp vaccination methods, however, are labor-intensive. A Zoetis spokes- woman confirmed that the condi- tional license is for a one-dose sub- cutaneous injection, meaning that a large farm would have to give shots to tens or hundreds of thousands or even millions of individual birds. If the USDA is exploring public-private partnerships, it should consider in- vesting in research to develop a vaccine that can be mass-adminis- tered through feed or drinking wa- ter. New vaccines may need to be developed as bird-flu. variants emerge. Vaccination also could affect trade. Most U.S.-produced eggs land in the domestic market, but the broiler, or meat bird, industry ex- ports 17% of its product, and many countries oppose importing meat What RFK Before he voted the Robert F. Ken- nedy Jr. nomina- tion out of com- mittee, Bill : Cassidy, a medical BUSINESS goctor_ ane the WORLD Committee chick By Holman W. 4 told a story. An 18- year-old patient had to be helicop- tered off for a high-risk, $250,000 liver transplant. The operation could have been avoided with a $50 hepatitis B vaccine. The part he didn’t mention: It likely wasn’t the girl or her parents who paid. How did Mr. Kennedy get con- firmed as the nation’s health secre- tary despite his vaccine apostasy, despite his dubious dealings with trial lawyers, despite his history of drug abuse? He got a big boost be- cause of a left-right MAHA coalition (Make America Healthy Again) that we hardly knew existed until he be- came its maypole. “Man, ultra-pro- cessed food, obesity, we are simpa- tico. We’re completely aligned,” gushed even Sen. Cassidy. Mr. Kennedy, the moms and the medical payment complex are all, at least in part, fumbling toward a problem known to the insurance in- dustry as moral hazard. Unless every economics textbook is wrong and in- centives don’t matter, a factor in the obesity crisis isn’t just the accessi- bility of tasty but unhealthy food. It isn’t just the high cost of exercise (which people once got free from their jobs). It’s also the fact that they can shove their health-care costs onto fellow taxpayers. When then-Mayor Mike Bloomberg took aim at New Yorkers’ trans fats, big gulps and cigarettes, many laughed, but he earned a sur- Jenkins, Jr. from vaccinated chickens. Mr. Trump may need to negotiate deals or exempt broilers from vaccination requirements. New methods to monitor and test flocks are emerging. Researchers have tried strapping biosensors to chickens—like tiny Fitbits—to track their health. Other sensors monitor flock-level trends. These technolo- gies, however, are in early stages of development and are often costly. “Is that technology ready to roll out? No, but it’s on the horizon,” said Jada Thompson, a University of Arkansas poultry scientist. Studying broader ecosystems is also helpful. In the latest outbreak, the virus has largely spread through wild ducks and geese carrying it to commercial flocks, according to Yuko Sato, an Iowa State University poultry veterinarian. Free-range chickens and flocks near wetland habitats or common bird flight paths are vulnerable to exposure. Maurice Pitesky, associate professor in cooperative extension at UC Da- vis School of Veterinary Medicine, said it could be useful to track wild bird populations more closely and build waterfowl-friendly habitats in areas that draw wild birds away from farms. “I think we need to be a little more holistic in our ap- proach,” he said. It’s good that Agriculture Depart- ment officials are tackling bird flu with renewed energy. But don’t ex- pect affordable omelets on the menu anytime soon. Ms. McClain is an assistant edi- torial features editor at the Journal. Jr.s Confirmation Means prising endorsement from tea-party types. One reader complained to a lo- cal tabloid: “I realize for some peo- ple, especially those with beer bellies, that a cup of coffee loaded with milk and sugar, a bagel with two pats of butter and a cigarette really gets the morning off to a quick start. But hon- estly, I am sick of paying for their Medicaid bills.” Two decades later, the nation’s obesity crisis couldn’t come up in the Kennedy hearings without somebody mentioning the cost to health-care payers. Mr. Kennedy himself testified: “In Medicaid and Medicare we need to focus more on making [patients] accountable for their own healthcare, so they understand the relationship between eating and getting sick.” How a scalawag came to symbolize the dilemmas of the welfare state. eee Americans would likely be hap- pier and certainly healthier if they ate better. The Joint Economic Com- mittee estimates obesity will cause upward of $8.2 trillion in “excess medical expenditures” in the next 10 years. Outside healthcare, prices are the incentive for consumers to regu- late their behavior to avoid such costs. Businesses are known also to pay attention to price signals. The food industry would certainly adapt if the prospect of a doctor’s bill sud- denly made that bag of chips seem prohibitive to consumers. But prices are nonfunctional in healthcare, where Soviet-style alloc- ative decisions are made over the heads of patients by giant, battling, self-interested institutions. Try wading into the acrimonious debate between Medicare Advantage insurers and hospital chains over the former’s refusal rate for proposed treatments. It’s impossible to say which side is right and a fool’s er- rand to try. Wherever they draw the line, it definitely falls shy of opti- mizing the public’s cost-benefit trade-off from the dollars it shovels into the payment complex as taxes and insurance premiums. Where this megatrend ends, be- sides in a fiscal crisis for America, nobody knows. In 2016, looking re- alistically at federal programs and tax policy, researchers calculated that government already accounted for two-thirds of health spending, and that was before the Covid-spon- sored expansion of Medicaid. Mr. Kennedy signals one possibility: As chattels of the health-care state, Americans will increasingly be regu- lated as to the foodstuffs they con- sume just as they are now regulated with respect to smoking, seat-belt wearing, helmet wearing, etc. Ex- pect another run at making health insurance mandatory, as ObamaCare attempted. Down the road, expect to be advised of the benefits of as- sisted suicide when the cost of keeping you alive doesn’t match the computed benefit. The problem is, as sensible as some of this may be, it leaves intact the basic incentive for Americans to consume more healthcare than they’d be willing to pay for if the price tags were directly attached. Mr. Kennedy is a Trumpian fig- ure—bombastic, untrustworthy and self-interested. Through some virtue not apparent to me, he has become a messenger of the colliding con- cerns of our poorly designed health- care system. It costs a lot more than it needs to. It does less well for pa- tients and payers than it should. The system is a threat to Americans’ fis- cal survival. If it isn’t fixed, it may become a threat to their personal autonomy. Al4 | Saturday/Sunday, February 22 - 23, 2025 KK KK THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. SPORTS Boston Of course it blew straight into over- time. How could it not? This crazy, ' ¥\ fresh-baked hockey tournament with four teams and a funny name, assembled from the ions as an NHL showcase, had somehow become the most rivet- ing theater in North America over the past week—an All-Star series, boxing melee and border tussle all in one. Naturally, its championship needed to conclude with hockey’s unmatched, stomach-churning theater: sudden death. And it finished with Canada as the victor, 3-2, over a feisty Team USA which talked the talk—and very nearly skated the skate. When I tell you this title game in Boston could have gone either way: It could have gone either way, many times. The U.S. had its chances, including in OT. Canada had one more, and it went to the player many consider the best on the planet, Connor McDavid, who blazed a shot past the brilliant U.S. goaltender Connor Hellebuyck for the game-winner and series- ender. Canada won...more than anyone imagined? The “4 Nations Face- Off” was a made-up idea with a quartet of teams (USA, Canada, Finland, Sweden) and zero tradi- tion, but pulling on those national sweaters clearly animated the par- ticipants. You could see it in the committed physicality of the play—and the postgame happiness of NHL millionaires like McDavid and Team Canada captain Sidney Crosby and winning goaltender Jordan Binnington (31 saves). “Not a gold medal or anything like that,” McDavid said when it was over. “But it means the world to our group.” This thing had been a saga since Saturday, when an animated Team USA went into Montreal, dropped its gloves (three fights in the opening nine sec- onds, all preplanned over text message) and grabbed a 3-1 win. A hockey exhibi- tion ignited into something very real, with the added tingle of geopolitics. Montreal fans, growly about the U.S. president’s talk about tariffs and annexing Canada as the 5lst state, lustily booed the “Star-Spangled Banner.” All-Star game? This was no stinkin’ All-Star game. Hockey was delivering something far more potent. When Canada rebounded to make Thursday’s final a rematch, anticipation soared. News outlets accustomed to White House cover- age veered into giddy hockey talk. Team USA took a phone call from President Trump in the morning. JASON GAY Thriller Ends With Canada’s Revenge World-class talent and national pride turned an NHL showcase into a tournament for the ages The tournament’s Zeitgeist as- cent was stunning. The hockey crazies were onboard, of course, but by game time, the bandwagon Zamboni had taken on the hockey- casuals, hockey-nevers and what- is-hockeys, too. In Boston, despite an admoni- tion from the PA announcer, and the presence of many visiting fans, they did boo “O Canada.” Still, the evening’s tension felt more like good-natured theater than actual hatred. Nosebleeds for the 4 Nations finale were going for $1,000 on the secondary mar- ket—this crowd was too fancy to fight. Walking inside, there wasn’t a whiff of the menace you'll get ina Euro football rivalry or even your standard NFL parking lot. A Can- ada die-hard held up a sign: WEL- COME TO THE USA, CANADA’S 11TH PROVINCE. What hockey fan could truly despise Canada? The country is inseparable from the game; most of its legends hail from its frigid rink hamlets. Outside TD Garden Above, Canada’s Connor McDavid reacts after the game-winning goal. Bottom, Jake Sanderson scored a goal for Team USA. in Boston is a massive statue of one of the best: Bobby Orr of Parry Sound, Ontario, immortal- ized in triumph, body horizontal, stick high, as done in 1970 to win the NHL Bruins a Stanley Cup. Boston didn’t boo Wayne Gretzky, when the Great One was introduced as Team Canada’s hon- orary captain. Team USA somehow emotionally one-upped his arrival with a local who didn’t play an NHL minute: Mike Eruzione, cap- tain of the “Miracle on Ice” 1980 Olympic Team. Eruzione wore the jersey of Johnny Gaudreau, aka “Johnny Hockey,” the Team USA star who had been struck and killed by an automobile driver, along with his brother, Matthew, over the sum- mer. In the end, it turned into a hockey game. Not a barroom brawl, like those rowdy early sec- onds of the opener, and not a spicy feud with an electrocurrent of politics. It was hockey, and Can- ada is good at it, as they have been forever. They are the peak of the sport internationally, and re- main so, despite Team USA’s re- lentless charge. This U.S. team—they appeared ready to pull it off. There was no text message WrestleMania this time, but emotionally, they were on it from the jump. They cranked Skynyrd’s “Freebird” after a first- period game-tying goal from Brady Tkachuk—another Brady, pulling off sporting magic in New England—and again when a Jake Sanderson rebound in the second gave Team USA a 2-1 lead. As the game drifted into OT, fans tried to summon a U.S. win- ner by chanting Gaudreau’s nick- name: John-ny Hock-ey. Hockey really found something here. This 4 Nations Face-Off was effectively an extended preview for the 2026 Winter Olympics, where NHL players will be allowed to participate for the first time since 2014. What observer doesn’t want to see Team Canada and Team USA renew their tangle in 12 months in Milan? Si grazie. It wasn’t the Olympics, a World Cup, or even a previously-known honor, but Thursday oozed with the special sauce every sport wants: meaning. You could see it in the eyes of the dejected U.S. players, leaning up against the boards, watching Canada celebrate McDavid’s win- ner. You could see it in the ex- hausted, ebullient Canadians, lift- ing a newfangled trophy they didn’t quite comprehend. They cared. That, plus sudden death overtime—what more could anyone ask? The Rare Medical Condition That Sidelined Wembanyama By RoBERT O’CONNELL ON THURSDAY, THE SAN ANTONIO Spurs announced that Victor Wembanyama—the 7-foot-3, 21- year-old center set to be the NBA’s next generational superstar— would miss the remainder of the NBA season. The reason wasn’t a broken wrist or torn ligament. It was instead an ailment far less common among young, top- level professional athletes: deep vein thrombosis. In other words, Wembanyama, who made his NBA debut last season, has a blood clot in his right shoulder. Such clots can break free and travel to the lungs, for instance, causing a life- threatening pulmonary embolism. Dr. Ara Metjian, a benign he- matologist and associate professor at the Duke University School of Medicine, said that a deep vein thrombosis occurring in someone under 30 is “very uncommon—less than one in 10,000.” But if such an ailment is out of the ordinary in a league full of sprained ankles and repaired knee ligaments, it is not unprece- dented. In recent seasons, Brandon In- gram, then a forward for the Los Angeles Lakers, and Ausar Thomp- son of the Detroit Pistons devel- oped blood clots. Both missed the remainder of their seasons—In- gram in 2019 and Thompson last year. But both players also re- turned from the condition and have resumed their careers. Hall-of-Fame center Chris Bosh, who won two championships with LeBron James and the Miami Heat, wasn’t as fortunate. Bosh had repeated issues with clots, and the condition forced him into an early retirement. He played his last NBA game at just 31 years old. The Spurs expect Wembanyama to be ready for the start of next season, according to a person close to the team. They believe this clot is an isolated condition, but the team didn’t release any details surrounding the cause. Without having treated him di- rectly, Metjian said that the most likely source was a clot provoked by a structural issue where pres- sure was being applied to a vein. Ingram had such an issue, called thoracic outlet syndrome, which was resolved by surgery. Another potential explanation, Metjian said, is a one-off clot pro- duced by repetitive motion. Such clotting sometimes appears in people who work with raised arms, Metjian noted: “Painters, electricians, cooks, even violin- ists.” The most worrisome diagno- sis—and the least likely, according to Metjian—would involve an un- The San Antonio Spurs announced that Victor Wembanyama would miss the remainder of the NBA season. derlying genetic condition, which might call for Wembanyama to re- main on blood thinners. That med- ication increases the risk of seri- ous bleeding from collisions or cuts, and it can preclude a career in contact sports. The NBA’s collective-bargaining agreement with the National Bas- ketball Players Association specifi- cally mentions blood clots as a “potentially life-threatening” med- ical condition. After Thompson missed the end of the 2023-24 season, it took the league’s Fit- ness-to-Play panel more than two weeks of this season to deem him ready to appear in competitive ac- tion. When Wembanyama entered the NBA in 2023, one of the few concerns about the wunderkind’s future was his health. Wembay- nama can dribble like a guard, shoot long-range 3-pointers and slam sky-high dunks. He blocks 3.8 shots per game, 1.4 more than the next-best player. But he came into the league as a skinny rookie, and athletes as tall as he is have some- times struggled with injuries, es- pecially in their legs and feet, that leave their game-changing poten- tial unfulfilled. Until Thursday’s announce- ment, though, Wembanyama had entirely sidestepped concerns about his ability to stay healthy. He played 71 of 82 games last sea- son—a high number in the league’s current era of load man- agement—and had missed just six games this season. Less than a week ago, during his debut at the NBA’s All-Star Game in San Francisco, he earned raves for playing as hard as any- one on the court. The appearance seemed to ce- ment Wembanyama’s status as basketball’s next standard-bearer. Asked during All-Star festivities whether he considered himself the next face of the NBA, the usually brash guard Anthony Edwards said no. He explained why: “That’s what they got Wemby for.” Now, the player the San Anto- nio Spurs and the entire NBA have been banking on faces a period away from basketball—and a stretch of uncertainty. CHARLES KRUPA/ASSOCIATED PRESS; CHARLES KRUPA/ASSOCIATED PRESS NICK WASS/ASSOCIATED PRESS Metal Rush A scramble to buy aluminum ahead of tariffs B9 BUSINESS | FINANCE | TECHNOLOGY | MANAGEMENT DJIA 43428.02 Vv 748.63 1.69% NASDAQ 19524.01 V 2.2% STOXX 600 553.85 a 0.5% HACHANGE THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. 10-YR. TREAS. 4 21/32, yield 4.419% OIL $70.40 v $2.08 Rough Day Stocks erased much of the week’s gains on Friday B11 GOLD $2,937.60 v $2.40 EURO $1.0461 YEN 149.28 FERRARI, FEDERICO SCOPPA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE/GETTY IMAGES, BRENDAN MCDERMID/REUTERS (TRADER) Domination of the Luxury ry Car ITH A LIST PRICE OF $3.7 MILLION, Ferrari’s new “hypercar” was revealed to the public in October with a twist: It wasn’t available for sale. All 799 units of the low-slung, high- haunched F80 model—the most expensive production vehicle in Ferrari’s history—had been promised to top customers like Luc Poirier. The Montreal real estate entrepreneur al- ready owns 42 Ferraris. He said he felt “lucky” to be allowed to buy yet another. “To be chosen by Ferrari for one of their hy- percars is a true milestone for any collector,” he said. Money isn’t enough to buy a top-of-the- range Ferrari. You need to be in a long-term re- lationship with the company. By leveraging the rabid fandom of its cus- tomers through a business model based on uber-scarcity, the storied Italian company is enjoying a new golden age. Following an al- most 10-fold increase in the stock since its ini- tial public offering almost a decade ago, Ferrari is now worth $90 billion, making it the most valuable car company in Europe—despite deliv- ering just 13,752 vehicles last year. Its sports cars are impossible to buy. Limited production is making the company the most valuable automaker in Europe.
