METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: Stocks
Title: By STUART CONDIE SYDNEY—U.S. real-estate advertiser and analytics pro- vider CoStar is looking to...
ID: 61

CONTENT:
By STUART CONDIE SYDNEY—U.S. real-estate advertiser and analytics pro- vider CoStar is looking to fol- low its recent U.K. expansion with a move into Australia, of- fering $1.68 billion for the country’s second-largest prop- erty advertiser. CoStar, which operates U.S. portals including Homes.com, made a nonbinding all-cash proposal for Domain worth 4.20 Australian dollars, equiv- alent to about US$2.66, per share. Domain said Friday that its board would assess the pro- posal. CoStar has already ac- quired an almost 17% stake at the proposed offer price, Do- main said. CoStar’s proposal comes 14 months after it completed a $125 million takeover of OnTheMarket, one of the U.K.’s three most-visited residential property portals. At the time, CoStar CEO Andy Florence said his company would inte- grate OnTheMarket into its network and invest millions of dollars in the U.K. business. CoStar didn’t respond to requests for comment. Nine Entertainment, the Australian media conglomer- ate that owns 60% of Domain’s shares, said it would judge whether the proposal was in the best interests of its share- holders. “Domain is of strate- gic importance to Nine’s me- dia ecosystem and our long- term growth strategy,” Nine said in a market filing. A sale by Nine of its con- trolling interest would present an opportunity for significant capital management, E&P ana- lyst Entcho Raykovski said in a note. Nine shares jumped more than 20% on Domain’s an- nouncement. Domain shares were up by about 40%. Last week, Domain re- ported a 46% jump in Decem- ber-half profit. Its shares are up 23% this year at A$3.12, but its market capitalization is dwarfed by that of News Corp- controlled rival REA Group. Domain has long labored unsuccessfully to overcome REA’s first-mover advantage in Australian online property classifieds. REA, still the No. 1 player, has a market capital- ization of US$22.53 billion. Domain’s marketing spend in the six months through De- cember was about half that of REA’s, Citi analyst Siraj Ah- med noted. CoStar, which doesn’t have any existing regional interests, could seek to leverage its ex- isting tech stack to boost Do- main’s engagement with con- sumers. News Corp owns Dow Jones & Co., publisher of The Wall Street Journal. FDA Clears Shortage of Ozempic, Wegovy
