METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: Stocks
Title: By SARAH SPELLINGS ETA ANNOUNCED in 2020 that it was end- ing its long-running “Yd Rather Go Nake...
ID: 96

CONTENT:
By SARAH SPELLINGS ETA ANNOUNCED in 2020 that it was end- ing its long-running “Yd Rather Go Naked Than Wear Fur” cam- paign. For three decades, the ads decrying the use of animal pelts in fashion had featured nude celebri- ties including Christy Turlington and Pamela Anderson. But suddenly, there was less to protest: California had banned the sale and manufac- ture of almost all new fur, and ma- jor brands like Prada and Gucci said they’d no longer use it, a trend the industry has since followed. Five years on, fur is back in fashion, and high-end dealers are reaping the benefits. While fur pro- duction has decreased overall since the aughts, demand for second- hand coats is on the rise. Furriers across the country are seeing re- newed interest in their vintage and used stock, increasing their sales. “In a year or two, you'll see it on the runway again,” said Daniel Wachtenheim, vice president of Los Angeles-based Wachtenheim Furs, who has worked in the busi- ness since 1984. The trend has already hit the Rapper Ice Spice at the Grammy Awards in February 2024. red carpet. At the 2024 Grammys, rapper Ice Spice wore a Baby Phat denim set embellished with fur re- purposed from a vintage vest. Heading into the stadium for the Super Bowl this month, DeAndre Hopkins, a wide-receiver for the Kansas City Chiefs, went viral for wearing what he said was his late father’s mink coat. Mink pelt production declined 28% between 2022 and 2023, ac- cording to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and the value of pelts fell 10% over the same period. Meanwhile, online interest has skyrocketed. According to Trenda- DeAndre Hopkins arriving at Super Bowl LIX in New Orleans this month lytics, which makes trend-forecast- ing software, views of TikToks about vintage coats have increased 243% over the past year, and Google searches for “vintage fur coats” have gone up 688% since January 2023, while interest in faux fur has remained nearly flat. Michael Appler, vice president of marketing for Trendalytics, said in an email that customers were re- sponding to the look, price and uniqueness of a vintage fur. “Gen Z consumers, especially those in the fashion set, value authenticity and quality,” he said. “For the fashion- savvy, buying vintage fur offers both, in addition to affordability.” Vintage fur started slinking back into fashion in early 2024, when “We have girls coming in who are in college and they want to buy fur? the “mob wife aesthetic” went vi- ral. The look required a big fur, a French manicure and animal print: think Carmela Soprano or Karen Hill in “Goodfellas.” That was when Larry Cowit, the president of Madi- son Avenue Furs in New York, started to notice a change in his clientele looking for used furs. “I haven’t seen this many young peo- ple coming in, in 25, 30 years. We have girls coming in who are in college, 20 years old, and they want to buy something in fur.” Louisa Harwood, a homemaker in University Park, Texas, said she wore her fur casually, as one might don a puffer jacket. “I’ll wear it to Pilates or pickup or running er- rands,” Harwood, 40, says. “The other day I was playing tennis with girlfriends and it was freez- ing, and we literally, all three, were wearing our furs.” Some of Harwood’s furs come from the SIL, an e-commerce site run by Natalie Bloomingdale. Bloomingdale works with remain- ing furriers in Southern California to sell their vintage stock. In two years, Bloomingdale has sold over 1,200 of their furs to customers across the country; she does par- ticularly well in Texas, Colorado and the Carolinas. The companies who have been around for several generations have seen fur go in and out many times. Paul Matsumoto started working in the fur industry in the 1960s, when celebrities like Doris Day and Mary Tyler Moore were speaking out against the use of an- imal pelts. “It was questionable if I should go into the business or not,” Matsumoto said. That changed in the 1980s, when Ronald Reagan was in office and the women of “Dynasty” ruled TV, swaddled in furs from Ed- wards-Lowell, where Matsumoto works. The boom lasted through the 90s, but the poor economy and prominent anti-fur activism in the 2000s dealt a near-fatal blow. “We decided to wait it out,” Mat- sumoto said of the 2008 recession. “We thought it would be a month, perhaps a year, but the fur indus- try hasn’t come back since then.” When the California law went into effect in 2023, Matsumoto said, “We lost probably two-thirds of our revenue.” Around that time, Bloomingdale received a postcard in the mail advertising Edwards- Lowell’s “purge the vault” sale. She toured the climate-controlled storage that housed over 4,000 furs. They struck a deal: She would sell them to her customers on In- stagram. The furrier would sug- gest a minimum price, and she would take any remaining profit. Bloomingdale put up seven pieces on her Instagram page and sold them in “like, 10 minutes,” she said. Most go for between $1,000 and $5,000, a relative steal considering a luxury faux-fur coat can run up to five figures. To PETA, all fur—old or new—is still fur. “There is a subset of people who are well-intentioned but mis- guided, who wear vintage fur even though they would never dream of buying new fur,” said Ashley Byrne, PETA’s director of outreach commu- nications. “They should be just as disgusted at any fur ripped off the back of an animal.” Cowit of Madison Avenue Furs said that after decades of scrutiny, fur had been embraced by the pub- lic again. “Just like the actors and actresses who got people to drop furs, these influencers are getting them to wear them again,” he said. WOO'NOSNHOFfV11N axMara / \ ; MANHASSEE 2102 NORTHERN ay 813 MADISON AVENUE 212 879 6100 125 PRINCE STREET 347 758 9274 THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. wok Saturday/Sunday, February 22 - 23, 2025 | DS YOUR WORLD INCLUDED™ 2 for 1 Cruise Fares Gourmet Specialty Dining Shipboard Gratuities Unlimited Starlink® WiFi And so much more EE D7 EB ee Ee aS oy LL irae LL ’ ____ — 7 op) yg Tere rar = Pe) reer F ¢) esi Le es a Seated Copenhagen, Denmark ULTRA-PREMIUM EXPERIENCE, exceptional savings Take advantage of our limited-time offer on select voyages and enjoy up to 50% Off plus select one free amenity: Unlimited Wine, Beer and Spirits; Shipboard Credit up to $1,000; Free or Reduced Airfare. Combined with the always free amenities of Your World Included™, you'll discover small ship luxury for less. OCE A NI A THE FINEST CUISINE AT SEA® CRUISES° AWARD-WINNING ITINERARIES Scan this QR code with your YOUR WORLD. YOUR WAY.® SMALL SHIP LUXURY™ smartphone camera to view Presidents’ Day Sale voyages. BOOK NOW. OFFER EXPIRES FEBRUARY 28, 2025. CALL 844-837-1324 | VISIT OCEANIACRUISES.COM/WJ | CONTACT YOUR TRAVEL ADVISOR Terms, conditions, restrictions, and capacity controls apply. Up to 50% Off and free amenity choice offer expire on 2/28/25 and are available for select categories on select voyages, subject to change and capacity controlled. Savings amounts vary per sailing and are per person. Mention Code: FS. Promotion may be withdrawn at any time without prior notice. Please visit www.OceaniaCruises.com for complete Terms & Conditions. MAR251917 D6 | Saturday/Sunday, February 22 - 23, 2025 KK KK THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. The New — Looks for Tasteful — Cooks Visible Means Of Support “The use of ceiling beams, whether original or decorative, has likely become popular because they add warmth, texture and architectural interest,” said Sean Anderson, a designer in Memphis, Tenn. Anderson added struts to this kitchen in : the Tribeca area of Manhattan : as a nod to the neighborhood's : former industrial character. Ceilings pocked with re- : cessed down lights. : says designers are establish- F = 8 ” F) | . ing “cooking zones” by inset- : ting the range and two : flanking cabinets. “This al- Wooden Hardware Though some pros still opt for spiffy metal pulls for drawers and cabinets—“the jewelry of the kitchen’—others are turn- ing to timber details like these OH Knobs by Spanish brand Viefe. Anderson, who chose large-scale oak appliance pulls in the kitchen above, appreci- ates their amiable interaction with other natural components : in the room, such as the stained cabinetry and re- claimed beams. Bin pulls. Your kitchen isn’t Old Doc Wilson’s apothe- : cary and feed store. : lows for a large hood, with : broad ventilation, to span : the width of the niche and : feel more integrated with : the architecture.” Strapped and riveted : vents hanging from the wall : like errant treasure chests. Fabric Panels Julia Miller of Yond In- teriors in Minneapolis predicts we'll see more cur- : tain-backed glass cabinet : fronts, like those Brooklyn : designer Jenna Chused in- : cluded in this design for New York cabinet company Isla : Porter. The fabric “transforms : cabinetry into what feels Big Range Hoods That Blend In Marita Simmons, of Minneap- : olis’s Kipling House Interiors, : more like furniture,” she said. “There will always be : a time and place for the iconic shaker-style cabinet,” : said interior designer Athena DESIGN & DECORATING Se Fe ee WINNING BEAM In a kitchen in New York’s Tribeca area, designer Sean Anderson added struts he said ‘celebrate the industrial heritage of the neighborhood. : Calderone, “but it’s really time > to move on.” Long, Seulptural Island Lights : Arlington, Va, designer Erin : Myers. New York pro Clive Lon- : : stein has turned to these : lengthy chandeliers for Man- : hattan projects where he : : sought a minimalist approach. : Designers are dangling a single, : : horizontal fixture, like this : Remming Linear Chandelier : from Arhaus, over kitchen is- : lands. “I appreciate the uniform : and consistent light it provides > across the work surface,” said Said Toronto designer : Sam Sacks, “The industry is : moving away from the ste- : reotypical arrangement of : three pendants over a kitchen : island, especially paired with : a line of kitchen stools.” Gleaming, Airy Bistro Racks “We will continue to see : wall cabinets replaced with : open French shelving,” said : Cyndy Cantley, a kitchen : designer in Birmingham, Ala. : Seattle interior designer : Jessica Nelson deployed this : particularly chic set because : it doesn’t block the wall’s : green tile, and the glass and : brass shelving “really packs a : visual punch.” “We are moving on : from the heavily veined mar- : ble backsplash with accompa- nying floating marble shelf,” : said Calderone. Chicly Camouflaged Storage : Design pros are tucking pan- : tries behind jib doors, like this : one by Maria Zoe Vassiliou. =: : “They make the entire kitchen : : feel cohesive,” said the : Shrewsbury, N.J., designer. : hardy and robust granite re- : turning to countertops. “A : honed, matte finish steers : clear of the 1980s look,” : said the co-founder of Lon- : don’s Studio Squire. In this : cottage kitchen, the designer : installed tumbled black gran- : ite, slightly rougher and more : rustic than honed: “It’s a : goody, with its slatelike ap- : pearance and bombproof : attributes,” she said. : basics such as lemon juice : can easily stain, says Squire. : Simmons similarly disguised : a scullery door, noting, : “Everyone loves the surprise : when they push on the : cabinetry face to discover : the hidden room.” Everything, every- : where and in plain sight. Impervious Stone Angelica Squire sees Dazzling, shiny but im- practical marbles that cooking HARIS KENJAR (BEAMS); VIEW (WOOD HARDWARE); MATT KISIDAY (HOOD); CHRISTIAN TORRES (FABRIC PANELS); ARHAUS (LIGHT); CARINA SKROBECKI (RACKS); LINDA PORDON (PANTRY); CHRISTOPHER HORWOOD IMPERVIOUS STONE) THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. Saturday/Sunday, February 22 - 23, 2025 | D7
