METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: Stocks
Title: By Mark ELLwoop NPACKING in hotels nowadays can feel like a game of chance. Take the Skinopi Lodg...
ID: 99

CONTENT:
By Mark ELLwoop NPACKING in hotels nowadays can feel like a game of chance. Take the Skinopi Lodge, a boutique ho- tel on Milos, Greece. Its minimalist design appeals, but when I checked in recently, I couldn’t help but won- der: Where are the drawers? Want to hang up a sports coat at the Radisson-operated Henrietta House in Bath, England? That might be tricky. On my last visit, I had to make do with a clutch of clothes hooks bolted to the wall. If youw’re booking at the Waldorf Astoria in Jerusalem, you might want to plan ahead. Though the suites start at a generous 538 square feet, some say the cramped closets can be a pain point. A com- pany representative explained that the property’s historic building has With rooms bereft of dressers and closets, guests must rely ona clutch of clothes hooks bolted to the wall. “presented some fascinating op- portunities and challenges.” One travel specialist suggests that any- one staying more than a few days should ask in advance for a clothes rack with actual hangers. Indeed, travelers can no longer assume that storing their clothes on the road will be straightforward: Contemporary room designs often omit drawers and closets, once stan- dard fixtures—and when included, they might be truncated or impracti- cal. From five-star palaces to budget inns, storage-strapped rooms in- creasingly prevail, but what’s caus- ing this great drawer die-off? Hospitality architect Lauren Ger- chakov explains that a desire to turn hotel lobbies into larger, buzzy, We Work-like multiuse spaces has shaved 5-10% off the standard guest room footprint. Result: less room for bulkier pieces of furniture like dressers. It’s also much cheaper, of course, to build out a slimmed- Hotels Don’t Give a Hang The latest trend in hotel design? A worrying lack of places to store your belongings. Here, why closets are out—and some clever workarounds. down design, added Gerchakov, de- sign director for Miami-based firm Lang & Schwander. There are huge savings, she said, “if you slash out a closet and instead put in hooks,” a move that the Tru by Hilton chain, for instance, has taken. “It could be up to $800 per room.” “All of these things allow a guest room to be smaller, and that saves money,” said Bjorn Hanson, a hos- pitality consultant in New York City. “It shortens the construction, [dressers] don’t need to be re- placed or purchased. That adds up.” But factors beyond cost-cutting are driving the shift, adds Hanson. As professionals have adopted business-casual looks instead of suits, for instance, travelers tend to pack lighter and worry less about crease-free jackets and ties. Jack Ezon of Embark Beyond thinks the trouble started when wall-mounted flat-screen TVs re- placed the bulkier sets that often sat on top of dressers. Suddenly, he believes, hotel developers be- gan seeing chests of drawers as a single-use feature. Another culprit: the increasing role of a hotel’s design as a market- ing tool. These places “are being built by asset managers looking for a splash with a starchitect,” said Ezon. Such architects, he added, “know how to make things sexy, but not functional. There’s a dichot- omy between fancy designers and people that understand operations.” Meanwhile, for properties that don’t skimp on storage, the trend has had positive consequences. In this era, they really stand out. Ezon and other experts hail hotels such as the Chedi Andermatt in Switzer- land, Hotel de Crillon in Paris, Beach Enclave in Turks & Caicos STASH SOLUTION / SMART STORAGE FOR ON THE ROAD Solgaard Carry-On Closet in Gothenburg Gray/Smoked Platinum, $345 and Raffles Doha in Qatar. Though these holdouts differ drastically, all grant guests ample space to unpack and stash whatever they’re carry- ing. On the modest end of the bud- get spectrum, the properties from Hub by Premier Inn throughout the U.K. are also known for their clever storage solutions like platform beds that contain both a deep drawer and a place to stash your suitcase. If, after checking in at less accom- modating hotels, you find yourself facing a dearth of drawers, don’t de- spair. In a room with two beds, treat one as a de facto dressing table, sug- gests Hanson, or request a clothes rack; most hotels have them in stor- age. To make hooks more user- friendly, pack a few foldable plastic hangers, too—Muji offers a stylish, compact design. Another fail-safe? Solgaard’s Carry On Closet suitcases (see “Stash Solution” above), which effectively convert luggage into por- table chests of drawers. Or improvise and follow Han- son’s own lead. When stranded without a spot to stash socks, un- derwear and more, he’s been known to ask for extra plastic laundry bags at the front desk and string them from hooks on the wall. Stay Informed. Outperform. Keep your team on top of the trends, markets and competition that impact your bottom line. Drive your business forward with a corporate subscription. VISIT CORPORATE.WSJ.COM/STAYINFORMED THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. IT’S YOUR BUSINESS ©2024 Dow Jones & Co, Inc. All rights reserved. 6DJ0555 biatifornia ky Nassau Westchester Rockland Connecticut Miami New York City Create Where You Belong CALL, VISIT A SHOWROOM, OR GO ONLINE TO SCHEDULE YOUR COMPLIMENTARY DESIGN CONSULTATION 844.295.1402 26 Varick St | 1629 York Ave 25 Northern Blvd, Greenvale 16 Saw Mill River Rd, Hawthorne 83 S Main St, New City 48 W Putnam Ave, Greenwich — coming soon 900 Park Centre Blvd, Miami Gardens CALIFORNIACLOSETS.COM
