METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: Stocks
Title: By ALEXANDER LOBRANO HEN my family set off on a sum- mertime Rhine voyage in 1978, gristly sausag...
ID: 100

CONTENT:
By ALEXANDER LOBRANO HEN my family set off on a sum- mertime Rhine voyage in 1978, gristly sausages in gray gravy passed as seasonal fare. On a weeklong Dalmatian- coast jaunt a few years later, we were expected to sustain ourselves on a chafing-dish buffet of myste- rious beige casseroles. So, it was with considerable surprise that af- ter a decades-long hiatus, I re- turned to the water recently and discovered that shipboard menus had not only improved—they’d gotten seriously good. I make my living as a food writer: My standards are stiff. But I found no fault with the succulent tamarind-spiked Cambo- dian curry I encountered aboard an Aqua Expeditions Mekong cruise, or the flawless duck a |’Or- ange I devoured on a trans-Atlan- tic holiday-season crossing of the Queen Mary 2. On Ponant’s Le Commandant Charcot, an elegant icebreaker that cruises to the Arctic and Ant- arctic, the cooking at the onboard restaurant Numa easily merited a Michelin star, maybe two. I count bh that journey’s knockout dish—per- fectly cooked veal sweetbreads garnished with slices of black truffle under a golden pastry dome in a Port-wine sauce— among the best dishes I’ve ever eaten anywhere. How had the high seas become a destination for haute cuisine? According to Sylvain Posso, ho- tel director for Ponant, a luxury cruise line based in Marseille, France, the shift reflects the pal- ates of an increasingly sophisti- From left: A chef presents a dish aboard the Queen Mary 2; chef Jamilka Borges’s corn sformato and pierogies cated clientele. “Travelers are more adventurous eaters than ever before,” he said. “One of the most important ways lines can distin- guish themselves is by the quality and variety of their food.” I’d wager that never before have so many people known the names of star chefs and wanted to eat their cooking on a regular rota- tion. In response, says Posso, his company signed famed French chef Alain Ducasse and his eponymous gastronomic consultancy to design i menus and train chefs for their ship kitchens. Ponant is also run- ning more gastronomically themed trips, including this April’s 8-day cruise from the Canary Islands to the Moroccan coastline. Among the culinary masterminds who will be on board: legendary pastry chef Pierre Hermé, Rachid Agouray of La Mamounia Marrakesh and som- melier Laetitia Ouspointour. Beyond celebrity razzle-dazzle, novelty also keeps passengers happy, says Glenn Milway, food Aqua Expeditions David Thompson, who moon- Star Chefs on the High Seas To stay competitive, cruises are getting serious about recruiting top culinary talent. Here, a few to know. : the French Alps, has cre- : ated Bistrot Sur La Mer, a lights as consulting chef on all of Aqua Expeditions’ Mekong cruises, is consid- ered one of the world’s great experts on the cook- ing of Southeast Asia. His former restaurant Nahm, in London, was the first in the world to earn a Mi- chelin star for Thai cuisine. Cunard Scion of the most famous French gastronomic dynasty in the United King- dom, Michel Roux Jr. is the headline consultant chef on the Queen Mary 2. His sig- nature dishes show up on Holland America Famed Iron Chef Masaharu Mo- rimoto acts as this cruise line’s “global fresh fish am- bassador”’—participating in a new initiative focused on on voyages. Princess Cruises Emman- uel Renaut, owner and ex- ecutive chef at the Michelin 3-starred Flocons de Sel in : modern bistro found aboard : four of this line’s ships: Ma- : jestic Princess, Sky Prin- cess, Enchanted Princess : and Discovery Princess. : Silversea Recognized by : Australia’s Good Food : Guide as one of the best : young chefs of her genera- : tion, Analiese Gregory be- : gan working with Silver- : sea’s SALT program in : 2024. Gregory has a par- : ticular passion for the wild : foods of her adopted Tas- : mania, including abalone, : oysters and mushrooms. menus throughout the ship. : Windstar Cruises Since : 2015, Windstar has been : partnering with the James : Beard Foundation to place : award-winning chefs on its ships. The Pittsburgh- based chef Jamilka Borges serving fresh, local catches : : five sailings planned for : 2025, a seven-day “Wind- ward Ways & Tobago Cays: : Aruba to Bridgetown” : cruise aboard the 312- : guest Star Pride. will headline the first of DECK A L’ORANGE From left: Silversea’s Silver Moon, docked in Hong Kong; a cocktail from a bar aboard the Silver Moon. and beverage manager for the Queen Mary 2, operated by Cunard out of Southampton, England. “The primary activity on any cruise is eating, so the food has to be good and also varied,” he said. To banish any risk of boredom, the Queen Mary 2 features a schedule of dishes that runs on a 28-day cy- cle to avoid repetition. And the chefs onboard continuously send feedback about what worked and what didn’t back to the develop- ment kitchens on the mainland. When executives at Silversea Cruises realized more customers were traveling specifically for new culinary experiences, they tapped Adam Sachs, the former editor in chief of Saveur magazine, to de- sign a program of insider food ad- ventures tailored to their routes. Partnering with small producers and locals, Sachs says he wants to give guests access to the same ‘Travelers are more adventurous eaters now, and cruise lines want to distinguish themselves with quality. kind of intimate, sensual, real- world food experiences he had as a globe-trotting journalist. His hugely popular program, SALT (Sea and Land Taste), launched in 2020 on a single ship and has since expanded to others. It now includes dedicated restau- rants that serve a menu of local dishes, cooking demonstrations and gastronomically themed shore excursions that Sachs says “take [things] beyond the plate.” That quest for authenticity reflects another major change: Waterborne dining rooms have become noticeably less Eurocen- tric. While the yellowed ocean- liner menus I found in my grand- mother’s scrapbooks were rather pretentiously written in French, today Gaul isn’t the be all and end all anymore. “Everyone loves sushi,” said Cunard’s Milway. Ditto: Indian and Southeast Asian food, making it practical to serve once-exotic dishes such as chicken tikka and nasi goreng. China’s in- fluence is apparent, too. “It’s the next big growth market for the cruising industry,” added Milway. His team has already introduced congee on most of their ships’ breakfast menus. Cruises are also tapping into a global culinary talent pool. Malay- sia native Moerdanny Mohamed Hassan was executive chef on my recent Queen Mary 2 crossing, while Mauritian-born chef Kamlesh Koonjee ran a team of 87 chefs on the cruise I took from Alaska to Japan on Regent Seven Seas. If recruiting top-flight gastro- nomic talent has transformed the caliber of cruise ship dining, the next challenge is sourcing. De- pending on the duration of the voyage, most ship companies load up on provisions via pallets at their home port or warehouses along the route. But “passengers want to taste the same beautiful foods they see when they visit lo- cal markets,” said Sachs. While the logistics of cruise cuisine’s scale and hygiene needs can challenge small farms and food producers, Sachs says that his work with SALT has proven it’s possible to build strong, reli- able relationships with local pro- ducers. Posso of Ponant agreed: “Local produce is the next frontier in cruise ship dining. It’s a little sad to be eating European apples and pears in the middle of the Indian Ocean.” CUNARD/CHRISTOPHER ISON (ROUX); CUNARD (QUEEN MARY 2); ADAM MILLIRON/WINDSTAR CRUISES (BORGES); JAMILKA BORGES (DISH); SILVERSEAS CRUISES (3) GENERAL MOTORS THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. KKK *K Saturday/Sunday, February 22 - 23, 2025 | D13 GEAR & GADGETS RUMBLE SEAT / DAN NEIL Into Mass- Market Kami SET ER Chevy Makes a Serious Push ly EVs PROFILE IN WATTAGE The Chevy Equinox can take on approximately 77 miles of range in 10 minutes—fast enough to be practical for unplanned charging. I’M WALKING on a beach when I see a glint of gold. I run to the spot and find an oil-burning lantern, half-bur- ied in the sand. Closing my eyes and rubbing lightly, I whisper my fondest wish: Make America adopt the metric system. Genie, please. Outside of foot-long hot dogs, pounds of flesh and fifths of liquor, there is nothing good about imperial/standard system of measures. It’s genuinely stupid. Particularly in the case of electric vehicles, the miles-per-gallon mindset fails consumers as surely as rods per hogshead (h/t, Grandpa Simpson). Consider the 2025 Chevy Equinox EV, with front-wheel drive, in LT trim ($51,545, as tested). The Equinox and sib- ling Chevy Blazer EV repre- sent GM’s first big push into mass-market EVs and a test- in-commerce for the com- pany’s electric propulsion system, formerly known as Ultium. The feds estimate the Equinox’s average fuel econ- omy at 109 miles per gaso- line-gallon equivalent, or mpg-e—which would be fine if people bought electricity like beer in a bucket. In the tidier metric sys- tem, energy use is measured in kilowatt-hours, like it is at your house; power is mea- sured in kilowatts (roughly 750 watts per horsepower). And efficiency is the energy cost per unit of work. With a nominal range of 319 miles, the Equinox’s over- all efficiency comes to 31 kWh per 100 miles, according to the feds’ slide rule. Is that good? Since the rest of the world deals in kWh/kilome- ters, we need to multiply both sides by 0.62 to arrive at a broadly comparable fig- ure: 19.2 kWh/100 km. Again, is that good? Meh. Compared to the relevant Tesla Model Y (16.7 kWh), the Hyundai Ioniq 5 (18.0), or the BMW i4 eDrive 35 (18.0), the overall efficiency is kind of a missed mark. But does it matter? The fact is, an EV doesn’t need to be on the tery’s cold-weather perfor- mance. The weather was moderate during my week with the car. But let’s sup- pose Equinox can lose up to 20% of nominal range in ex- treme cold. That still leaves 252 miles of range. The VW ID. Buzz I tested last month started with an on-paper range of 234 miles, but after an overnight cold soak, that fell to between 170 and 180 miles. Not enough. The Ultium’s long road also included faster charging, up to 150 kW. While state of the art hovers around 400 kW and over 900V, the Equinox’s recharge rate— equivalent to 77 miles of range in 10 minutes—seems To be clear, GM continues to make the Equinox with ICE powertrains. The Equinox EV comes in two trim levels, LT and RS, with all-wheel drive available on all trims. Our LT started at a low-low $33,600 MSRP but it came laden with $16,550 in optional equip- ment, bringing a significant swag to the school zone drop-off: heated front and rear seats, heated steering wheel, wireless charging, power-lift tailgate, 21-inch wheels, and dual panoramic sunroof, as well as the full complement of GM’s active safety, including high-def 360-degree camera feeds and Super Cruise (required On- Star activation). The interior decor is smart, simple and tasteful, with snazzily stitched two- tone upholstery played against soft-touch panels and door caps. The center of con- sciousness is the car’s 17.7- inch diagonal touch screen, hosting Google built in, with navigation en suite and a slew of touch-activated apps in the fanning pages of the display’s menu. This interface works instantly and well, no- tably quicker than previous generations from GM. Two ample cup holders enjoy pride of place in the center console. USB ports and auxil- iary plugs abound. I dig the Equinox’s exterior details, particularly. The illu- minated bar across the nose, the animated LED headlamps and LED taillamps all give it a presence of cheery futurity. The crossover shape sits well on those 21-inch wheels; the low roofline and narrowed greenhouse hints there’s fun to be had. And there is—some. One of Equinox’s secrets to longer range is that it doles out the power somewhat sparingly. If you’ve ever fussed over EV enthusiasts’ unrealistic ob- session with 0-60 mph accel- eration, GM heard you. The single-motor, 220-hp front- drive version touches 60 mph in an altogether-sensible 7.7 seconds, according to Car and Driver. That sounds about right. In my time behind the wheel, I was forced to recali- brate a bit. The foot-down, merging-lane acceleration comes on sort of softly as the kilowatts gradually outpace the kilograms. One needs to plan for that. At around 75 mph, the Equinox starts to run out of metric beans. For a lot of would-be buy- ers, only one number mat- ters: the $7,500 federal tax credit. For now, the Equinox still qualifies for the federal tax credit and some of its competitors do not. With that adjustment, the test vehicle bottom line would come in at $44,045. That’s a ton of car per kilogram. For a lot of would-be buyers, only one number matters: the $7,500 federal tax credit. For now, the Equinox still qualifies. cutting edge to save owners money. The average owner will pay only about $750 an- nually in electric fuel—a sav- ings over five years of $5,750 compared to the average new vehicle. In a strapline worded like a legal document, GM says the Equinox is the most affordable EV on the market with 315+ miles of range. Among the to-dos that got done, GM put considerable effort into improving the bat- sufficient for occasional charging in the wild. I would say it’s competitive if there were more competitors. But EVs are only truly con- venient and economical with Level 2 home charging. The Equinox’s 11.5 kW onboard charger will fully restore the 85-kWh battery pack in roughly 7.4 hours (85/11.5=7.4). Now isn’t that easier than figuring out how many gallons are in a kWh? 2025 CHEVY EQUINOX EV LT FWD Base price $33,600 Price, as tested $51,545 Powertrain Battery electric, with a single front-mounted AC synchronous motor; single- : gearset transmission; 85-kWh lithium-ion battery pack; : front-wheel drive. : Power/torque 220 hp/ : 243 Ib-ft : Length/wheelbase/width/ height 190.6/116.3/84.9/64.8 : 0-60 mph 7.7 seconds (Car : and Driver) : Curb weight 4,895 pounds : EPA fuel economy 109 mpg-e : Maximum charging rate 150 : kW, equiv to 77 miles : range/10 minutes : Cargo capacity 26.4/57.2 cubic : feet, behind rear/front seats The Wall Street Journal is not compensated by retailers listed in its articles as outlets for products. Listed retailers frequently are not the sole retail outlets. THE NEW 2901 COLLINS AVENUE MIAMI BEACH, FLORIDA 33140 RESERVATIONS +800 466 9695 WWW.EDITIONHOTELS.COM D14 | Saturday/Sunday, February 22 - 23, 2025 THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. Poetic Complications Lady Féerie Van Cleef & Arpels Haute J oallerie, place Vendome since 1906 vancleefarpels.com - 877-VAN-CLEEF
