METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: Stocks
Title: NO ROOM FOR CLOTHES AT THE INN Why hotels are increasingly eliminating closets and dressers D11 D...
ID: 94

CONTENT:
NO ROOM FOR CLOTHES AT THE INN Why hotels are increasingly eliminating closets and dressers D11 D2 | Saturday/Sunday, February 22 - 23, 2025 THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. KK KK STYLE & FASHION THE OTHER WEEK, a Dallas reader emailed me with a grave style problem: He couldn’t bear to look at one more man in a generic golf shirt. He grumbled that the ho-hum stretch polos branded with country club or corporate logos dominate at church, the office and school pickup. “I’m so tired of the bland athleisure uniform,” he said, confessing to sporting the shirts himself. Could I help him—and his fellow sinners—find a stylish up- grade? Feeling magnanimous, I told him I would try. Golf shirts, typically made in per- formance fabrics, are increasingly sticking their polyester collars into non-sporty settings like offices. Postpandemic, “most execs in pub- licly traded companies think khakis- and-a-golf-shirt is sharp casual,” said Brendan Daly, 64, a former exec in Reston, Va., who retired last year with a closet full of stretch. His theory: Though lots who par- take in corporate America’s “golf shirt craze” play golf, just as many simply enjoy the shirts’ comfort. That would be grand if a lot of these shirts weren’t the style equiv- alent of a triple bogey. Many read cheap, cling cruelly, yell with lurid prints and give off major style-ag- nostic dad vibes. Lauren Mize, the co-founder of a Dallas fashion e-re- tailer, has forbidden her 30-year-old banker husband to wear golf shirts outside work and golf. In them, she said, “I think he looks like a college student or a 55-year-old dad.” Being a fashion snob, I’ve long thought that wearing stretch clothes outside sports should be a federal crime. So my first instinct was to instruct my Dallas pal and his clones to burn (melt?) their shirts and buy nice cotton ones. But that’s like asking a Big Mac ad- dict to choose a garden salad—not gonna happen. “A golf shirt is lighter and more comfortable” than a cotton polo, said Jared Berg, 34, a law-firm partner in Houston who wears them “all the time, every- where.” He finds them breathable— and “it’s nice wearing a shirt that doesn’t show sweat.” Daly called his shirts “brutally comfortable.” A better plan: I would abandon Shophound says: Look for golf shirts in textured cloth like piqué— and avoid wimpy collars! C ae THREE ABOVE PAR / GOLF SHIRTS THAT DELIVER OFF THE COURSE Stylish Dad Criquet Performance Range Polo, $98 —= —" Cool Guy Sugarloaf Social Club Pique Pocket Polo, $95 my beliefs and hunt for a truly stylish (and violently comfy) golf shirt suitable for the office and other settings devoid of sand pits and small vehicles. Berg and Daly suggested $100 as a ballpark, which seemed reasonable. After consulting golf and style aficionados, I tried designs from a dozen raved-about brands. For 10 days I lived in golf shirts. I wore so many that I woke up one morn- ing fretting about my kids, mort- gage and tee time. (I’m a childless renter who can barely tell a putter from a pitching wedge.) I started with a $73 polo from Local Rule, a Swedish brand recom- mended by Marc van Dodewaard and Jelle Lobbes, who run trendy Amsterdam apparel store Bisque Golf. I was still feeling a little supe- rior, and as I pulled this quiet navy number over my head I braced my- self for a “synthetic” feel. It felt...wonderful. Its airy mesh cloth glided along my arms. My cotton shirts don’t glide. New York fashion week was on, so I wore the polo to a show. Af- terward I cornered a department- store buyer and, opening my coat Wanted: A Stylish Golf Shirt (for Work like a flasher, blurted: “Do you like my shirt?” “It looks very func- tional,” he shot back. Then he added, curiously: “It doesn’t look stupid.” A compliment? Though the fabric read a smidge too gym- y, ’'d found an early leader. Michael Maccari, a menswear designer and professor at New York’s Fashion Institute of Tech- nology, noted that most golf shirts are polyester spiked with spandex for stretch. (Some also contain cotton.) A moisture-wicking whiz, polyester moves sweat away from the body to keep you cool and dry. These synthetics shrug off wrin- kles, too. But they can accentuate beer guts if snug, so Maccari lob- bied for a “slightly looser” fit. Polyester takes many forms. Maccari recommended matte ver- sions in dark solid colors—shini- ness can come off cheap. The Bisque guys praised textured pi- qué. And I beg you to dodge flimsy, nipple-revealing cloths. Maccari noted that a strong col- lar and prominent placket up the appeal. I found both in a $98 navy polo by Criquet. Four buttons stud- ded its long placket; collar stays A Rich, Sporty Sort Public Drip Public Athlete Tonal Polo, $95 stiffened its dress-shirt-like collar. I wore it to lunch with a PR exec, who said I looked like “a sensible young dad.” At a fashion show, a stylist friend gave it a “handsome.” It shot to the top of my “stylish and competent dad” pile. Keeping it company: a pale-blue $125 Peter Millar shirt and a $110 deep-green gem by Quiet Golf. All boasted premium-looking cloths, were scribed the green-and-white stripes on a $95 Sugarloaf Social Club polo as “an optical illusion.” Those shirts got a raw deal! Both piqué, they made sense with items beyond plain chinos—rare, I’d found. Though I’d prefer a smaller cartoon logo on Malbon’s, that shirt oozed streetwear-like swagger. (Worried your colleague will ask you to mow her front yard? Pick navy.) And Sugarloaf’s stripes came off nicely retro, not gaudy. These Many golf shirts cling, formed pile two: “cool guy” shirts. . I'd avoided the sportiest styles. read cheap and give off Then Ben Boskovich, editor-in-chief of golf media brand Skratch, put me on to Brooklyn’s Public Drip. Its slinky $95 polo stretched every which way and could never mas- querade as cotton. I should’ve hated it. But this recycled-poly take was comfy in that desirably violent way—and its suaveness couldn’t be denied. Here was a sleek sports car of a shirt complete with inky luster and a knit spread collar inspired by knit ties, according to founder Neil Tan. One colleague pointed at me and declared, “You look rich.” Off it went to a pile of one I la- beled “sporty like an Aston Martin.” style-agnostic dad vibes. stripped of pockets for a clean look, and suggested wearers could zip through a tax return. When my colleagues were on deadline one day, I decided it would be a good idea to change shirts eight times and rush around the office demanding they sum- mon pithy descriptors for each. One said a $108 basil-green shirt by Malbon Golf made me look like I worked at “a lawn-care center” (blame the green). Another de- LEONIE DESPRES (MAIN); FEDERICA DEL PROPOSTO (HOUND) we ~ Legendary THE BREAKERS*® PALM THEBREAKERS.COM | 877-881-9051 BEACH ai Chocolate brown's a winner in wool; Frame Wool Cargo Pants, $448 FAST FIVE Corner-Office Pockets Style this cropped pair with boots; Cargo Pant, A Banana Republic Italian Flannel In grown-up fabrics far too refined for riding a halfpipe, these streamlined takes on cargo pants don’t flop about. But please don’t overstuff the pockets ’til they bulge. aE “A lean cut with \ more-compact pockets; Brunello Cucinelli _ Cotton-Gabardine Cargo Trousers, | $980 at Mr Porter al v A A We like the handy Flecked wool side tabs here; lifts the look of Celine Homme this pair; Filson by Hedi Slimane _ Mackinaw Wool Cargo Pants, Field Pants, $1,500 $445 MR PORTER (BRUNELLO CUCINELLI_) THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. KKK *K February 22 - 23, 2025 | D3 Let’s Brooch The Subject Once a conversation nonstarter, brooches are a hot topic in fashion again. Here, how pins can revive and excite your wardrobe.
