METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: Stocks
Title: USE WASHINGT White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt The AP said Jan. 23 that its style guid...
ID: 30

CONTENT:
USE WASHINGT White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt The AP said Jan. 23 that its style guide would maintain the Gulf of Mexico terminol- ogy, given its global audience that still adheres to that nam- ing, “while acknowledging the new name Trump has chosen.” The suit, filed in federal court in Washington, D.C., names as defendants White House Deputy chief of staff Taylor Budowich, White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt and White House chief of staff Susan Wiles. It requests a temporary re- straining order and injunction against the White House limi- tations on its reporters. The AP, founded in 1846, is a nonprofit news cooperative whose members are U.S. news organizations. The AP said it tried to per- suade Budowich, Leavitt and Wiles to change course before turning to legal action, includ- ing by having newsroom lead- ers fly to Florida to meet with Wiles in recent days. “The AP’s frivolous and de- mented lawsuit is nothing more than a blatant PR stunt masquerading as a first amendment case,” White House spokesman Steven Che- ung said, adding that the ad- ministration would defeat the n n Pe a a < = S N 4 Z a a > a a = o a a Zz = AP in court. “We feel we are in the right in this position,” Leavitt said on stage at the Conservative Political Action Conference on Friday, adding that she learned of the suit while en route to the event. “And as I said in my first briefing at the podium, we are going to ensure that truth and accuracy is present at the White House every single day,” she said. Other members of the White House press pool have main- tained access to the Oval Office and other areas, even while the AP has been barred. The pool, whose makeup is largely determined by the White House Correspondents Association, typically consists of three wire reporters, four photographers, three network TV journalists, a radio corre- spondent and at least one print reporter, according to the suit. The AP is also accusing the Trump administration of vio- lating the Fifth Amendment, arguing that journalists’ inter- est in access to the White House qualifies as a freedom that can’t be denied without due process of law. On Feb. 11, White House of- ficials informed the AP that it would be barred from entering certain areas in the White House as a member of the press pool unless it began re- ferring to the Gulf of Mexico as the Gulf of America. A few days later, the admin- istration indefinitely banned AP journalists from accessing the Oval Office and Air Force One, which are open to mem- bers of the press pool. In an email to the AP on Feb. 18, Wiles explained that the White House was target- ing the AP because its style guide “is used by many as a standard for writing and edit- ing,” and that it “advises jour- nalists, scholars and class- rooms around our country,” according to the suit. News organizations have rallied around the AP in re- cent days. A number of out- lets, including The Wall Street Journal, Washington Post and Fox News, signed a letter pushing for the White House to reverse the AP ban. The White House Corre- spondents Association sent the letter Monday and has been in regular discussion with the White House and AP in its effort to get the AP back into the press pool, according to a person familiar with the talks. A4 | Saturday/Sunday, February 22 - 23, 2025 PWtLELcCtlO%tH 2HTGKRFAMI123456789 01 X X woeaex ee ® THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. U.S. NEWS Top Pentagon Officers Fired in Sweeping Overhaul By Nancy A. YOUSSEF WASHINGTON—The Trump administration fired the mili- tary’s highest-ranking officer, the admiral leading the Navy, and several other senior lead- ers in a massive Pentagon shake-up of the top ranks of the armed forces. The firings began with an announcement by President Trump on Friday that he had fired the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Air Force Gen. CQ Brown, Jr., and was nominating a retired three- star general to replace him. Shortly after Trump’s Truth Social post, Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth said he was oust- ing Adm. Lisa Franchetti, the first woman to lead the Navy and to be on the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Gen. James Slife, the deputy head of the Air Force. Hegseth also said he was planning to replace the top uniformed lawyers for the Army, Navy and Air Force. The firings were an unprec- edented move to replace top uniformed officers in multiple branches of the armed ser- vices by an administration that has accused the Pentagon of failing to focus on its core war-fighting mission. While some firings at the Defense Department were an- ticipated, the moves caused shock waves at the Pentagon nonetheless and raised ques- tions about what the moves portended, both for the com- mander in chief’s control of the military and for the ca- reers of other generals and Air Force Gen. CQ Brown Jr. admirals the administration has criticized. “I want to thank General Charles ‘CQ’ Brown for his over 4O years of service to our coun- try, including as our current Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. He is a fine gentleman and an outstanding leader, and I wish a great future for him and his family,” Trump wrote in a Truth Social post. Sen. Richard Blumenthal, = (D., Conn.) a member of the B Armed Services Committee said S in a post on X: “Purging these i ye highly dedicated, decorated : a military leaders—based on poli- i tics, not merit—does immedi- = ate immense & lasting damage x to the readiness of our armed 2 = forces & national defense.” Sen. Lindsey Graham (R., S.C.), said, “President Trump, like every president, deserves to pick military advisers that he knows, trusts and has a re- lationship with.” Trump gave no reason for replacing Brown, the second Black officer to serve as the military’s highest-ranking offi- cer and the president’s senior military adviser. Hegseth didn’t explain the firings of the other officers. Brown was ousted despite support among key members of Congress and a seemingly positive meeting with Trump in mid-December, when the two sat next to each other at the Army-Navy football game. Brown had been meeting reg- ularly with Hegseth at the Pentagon. On Friday, Brown was at the U.S.-Mexico border, where Trump has ordered a buildup of U.S. troops to counter ille- gal immigration. He learned about the decision shortly be- fore the announcement, a de- fense official said. Franchetti posted on social media that she was conducting meetings at the Pentagon Friday and was surprised by the news. Hegseth didn’t announce nominees to replace Franch- etti, Slife, and the judge advo- cates general of the Army, Navy and Air Force, saying he would seek recommendations for their replacements. He didn’t say who he would seek nominees from. Retired Air Force Lt. Gen. Dan Caine will be nominated to be the next chairman, Trump said. Caine, the first retired officer to be nominated to serve as the military’s high- est-ranking officer, must be confirmed by the Senate. Brown, who has been in the job since later 2023, was re- placed before the end of what is normally a four-year term. Johnson Navigates Bumpy Path Continued from Page One assist from Trump, who has the sole power to unify the GOP. Though the Constitution envisions the House speaker as head of a coequal branch of government, it is widely un- derstood that Johnson serves at Trump’s pleasure. Recog- nizing this dynamic, Johnson has worked hard to ingratiate himself with the president. The trouble for Johnson is that even though the fate of much of Trump’s agenda rests on his slight shoulders, Trump doesn’t seem much concerned about Johnson’s political sur- vival. He taunts Johnson regu- larly about the difficulties posed by his slim majority— difficulties Trump exacerbated by plucking House members to serve in his administration. Most vexingly of all, the president has offered little guidance for the mammoth legislative task that will con- sume Johnson’s foreseeable future, a single bill that is to include large spending cuts, funding for the president’s im- migration and energy priori- ties, a continuation of 2017 tax cuts and potentially new tax cuts he has promised. “As long as we have a one- seat majority, Mike is going to have to rely on the influence President Trump has on a large percentage of our con- ference to get anything done,” said Rep. Ronny Jackson (R., Texas), a close Trump ally. Early in Johnson’s speaker- ship, Trump “asked a lot of questions to me and others about what we thought about him,” Jackson recalled. But Jackson and others close to Trump said he has grown to like Johnson. There is evidence John-
