METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: Stocks
Title: By JENNIFER CALFAS Los Angeles Mayor Karen Bass dismissed the city’s fire chief following her man...
ID: 27

CONTENT:
By JENNIFER CALFAS Los Angeles Mayor Karen Bass dismissed the city’s fire chief following her manage- ment of the devastating wild- fire that tore through the city’s Pacific Palisades neighborhood last month. Bass said she removed Los Angeles Fire Department Chief Kristin Crowley from her posi- tion after the fire department chose not to position many of its firefighting resources ahead of the life-threatening wind- storm that fueled the growth of wildfires in early January. “We know that 1,000 fire- fighters that could have been on duty on the morning the fires broke out were instead sent home on Chief Crowley’s watch,” Bass said in a state- ment Friday. The Palisades fire destroyed thousands of homes and build- ings, and killed a dozen people. Bass said Crowley also declined to conduct a report investigat- ing the department’s response. A spokesperson for the Los Angeles Fire Department de- clined to comment. Crowley didn’t respond to requests for comment. The mayor’s office said later Friday that Crowley has elected to stay with the de- partment at a lower rank. The Wall Street Journal and other news outlets reported the city’s fire department de- clined to keep around 1,000 firefighters on duty for an ex- tra shift ahead of the forecast windstorm in early January, in what is considered “limited re- call.” This would have allowed the department to staff all of its roughly 42 series-200 en- gines. The fire department also didn’t predeploy teams in the Pacific Palisades. The mayor appointed former fire chief deputy Ronnie Villan- ueva as interim fire chief. Fire departments assess forecasts and other factors to Kristin Crowley determine to what extent they should increase staffing and preposition resources. A day before destructive wildfires sparked in January, the Na- tional Weather Service warned a life-threatening windstorm would hit much of Los Angeles and Ventura counties, fueling the rapid growth of wildfires. The Palisades fire was the first of several wildfires to spark across the Los Angeles region on Jan. 7. The Eaton fire started several hours later, de- stroying thousands of homes and buildings in Altadena and killing 17 people. The Los Angeles Fire Depart- ment managed the response to the Palisades fire and the county’s fire department led the response to the Eaton fire. Bass has faced criticism for her response to the wildfires. She was out of the country when they started on a U.S. del- egation trip to Ghana. Crowley said city budget cuts left her department without proper re- sources in an interview with the Fox affiliate in Los Angeles as firefighters struggled to contain wildfires in January. Bass said Friday the fire department’s budget has increased while she has been in office. Crowley defended the city department’s preparation for the wildfires at a press confer- ence in mid-January. She said the department followed the system it had in place to prede- ploy resources and increase staffing without knowing where a fire could spark. “We surged where we could surge,” she said at the time. Tom Weitzel and Nancy Spiller on Jan. 24 came to visit what was left of their home in the Pacific Palisades neighborhood of Los Angeles. Top right, L.A. o CLOCKWISE FROM LEFT: ALISHA JUCEVIC FOR WSJ; CAROLINE BREHMAN/EPA/SHUTTERSTOCK; APU GOMES/GETTY IMAGES County firefighters took up positions to battle the Palisades fire on Jan. 7. Above right, police officers helped people evacuate along Sunset Boulevard. Palisades Residents Want Answers LOS ANGELES—Nancy Spiller and her husband tried for hours to evacuate their burning Pacific Palisades neighborhood. After two failed attempts, they feared their only option was to shelter in place. By Jim Carlton, Marc Vartabedian and Brian Whitton “There was fire on both sides of the road,” Spiller said. “And no one was going anywhere.” The couple, along with thou- sands of others in the area, made a harrowing escape on Jan. 7, contending with public- safety failures that led to cha- otic evacuations and difficulties containing the blaze during its crucial early hours. A dozen of the 29 people who died as a re- sult of the January wildfires were found in the Palisades. More than a month later, a community in ashes is demand- ing answers and change from the agencies charged with pro- tecting lives and _ property. “We're asking the city to look at everything that happened, from evacuation to the fire prepara- tion, to do an honest assess- ment of what were the prob- lems and how to make sure they don’t happen again the next time,” said Steve Cron, a neighbor of Spiller’s who sits on the Pacific Palisades Commu- nity Council and lost his home. The Los Angeles County Fire Department had for years de- tailed to the board of supervi- sors a need for additional aerial firefighting resources like wa- ter-dropping helicopters, with only partial success, according to documents reviewed by The Wall Street Journal. The morning of Jan. 7, the city’s fire department chose not to preliminarily position many of its firefighting resources, even in the face of dire warn- ings, according to an internal resource-planning record re- viewed by the Journal. While the fire department prede-
