METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: Stocks
Title: WORLD WATCH ; 3 SE os = age . = Bat GOTTA DANCE: A rehearsal for the coming Jhumur Festival drew ...
ID: 43

CONTENT:
WORLD WATCH ; 3 SE os = age . = Bat GOTTA DANCE: A rehearsal for the coming Jhumur Festival drew a crowd to Sarusajai Stad : DIPLOMACY Trump Envoy Heaps : President Trump’s envoy leader of a nation at war.” Retired U.S. Lt. Gen. Keith and other senior U.S. officials Zelensky said Trump was information space.” —Associated Press : : To War in Ukraine : nior diplomats from leading : rich and developing countries : mainly focused on the Rus- : sia-Ukraine war Friday, the : last day of their meeting. : ister Ronald Lamola con- : firmed that President Cyril : Ramaphosa has invited Ukrai- : : nian President Volodymyr Zel- : : ensky for a state visit. : claims made at the meeting— : Russian Foreign Minister Ser- : gei Lavrov said Western : countries were to blame for : the war in Ukraine. The top : U.K. diplomat, David Lammy, : said Russia apparently isn’t : seeking peace. oe ¥ fs G-20 Meeting Turns : Foreign ministers and se- The two-day gathering in : Johannesburg of the Group : of 20 nations was marked by : the absence of a senior U.S. : delegation. South Africa, the : first African country to hold : the G-20 presidency, said cru- : cial deliberations continued in : the presence of acting U.S. : Ambassador Dana Brown. South African Foreign Min- : There were vastly different : —Associated Press : ium in Guwahati, India, on Friday. : BALTIC SEA Sweden Probes : Latest Cable Break Swedish authorities are in- : vestigating a damaged cable : discovered in the Baltic Sea— : the latest in recent cable rup- : tures that have heightened : fears of Russian sabotage : and spying in the region. The breakage was found : on a cable that runs between : Germany and Finland, the : news agency TT reported Fri- : day. The Coast Guard was re- : sponding to the site. A “pre- : liminary investigation into : sabotage was opened,” Swed- : ish police said. Late last month, authori- : ties discovered damage to a : cable running between the Latvia and Sweden. A vessel belonging to a Bulgarian com- : pany was seized but later re- leased after Swedish prosecu- : tors ruled out initial : suspicions of sabotage. The European Commission, : the 27-member EU executive : branch, presented measures : on Friday for better protec- : tion of underwater cables in : its region. —Associated Press In Memoriam For more information: wsj.com/inmemoriam Donald Moffitt E WALL STREET JOURNAL. " Honor your loved one's life in The Wall Street Journal Share your loved one's story with an announcement in the pages of The Wall Street Journal, either in our national or regional editions. Our In Memoriam notices provide a dignified way for friends, family and colleagues to pay tribute. To learn more, visit WSJ.com/InMemoriam © 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Way . a Mey journa WILLIAMSBURG, VA. - Donald Moffitt, 88 years old, a retired news editor of The Wall Street Journal in New York who had lived in Williamsburg since 1999, died peacefully in the night in his home on February 11, 2025. His career in journalism and financial services spanned 46 years, beginning at the age of 16, when he joined the Houston Post as a copy boy. Born Donald Anthony Moffitt on May 15, 1936, in Houston, Moffitt at the age of 17 became a reporter for the Houston Post, where his father was a photoengraver, and worked there during vacations from college at Yale University. He graduated from Yale in 1958 and joined The Wall Street Journal in 1960 in the paper's Dallas news bureau, transferring to San Francisco in 1966. With the late Art Sears, Jr, a native of Newport News and the Journal's first black reporter, Moffitt shared a 1970 Mike Berger Award from Columbia University for reporting on New York City affairs. The two reporters wrote a series of stories on life in a poor black and Latino neighborhood in the Bronx borough of the city, where they had rented a room for a month and probed the difficult lives of residents. For the series, called “Kelly Street Blues” they were nominated for a Pulitzer Prize. Moffitt resigned from the Journal in 1983 and became an assistant managing editor of Forbes magazine, but returned to the Journal in 1985 as a news editor, supervising a staff of investigative and other reporters. He became one of the newspaper's page-one editors in 1987 and retired at the end of 1990. Moffitt’s widow, Ellen Graham, was also an editor at The Wall Street Journal. In 1975, the couple extended their Euro- pean wedding trip to report on the plight of Greek and Turkish refugees in Cyprus after the Turkish invasion of the island, as part of a Wall Street Journal series on the swelling number of refugees around the world. After she retired in 1998, the couple moved from Connecticut to Williamsburg. Moffitt’s brother, David Moffitt, former superintendent of the Colonial National Historical Park, had retired there earlier. Donald Moffitt is survived by his wife, his brother, his daughter, and one grandchild, all of Williamsburg. Moffitt enjoyed boating and especially fishing, which he took up in childhood, surf-casting at Galveston, Texas. He did research into his family history. He was a member of the Mory’s Associ- ation, New Haven, CT; the James City County Democratic Committee, and the Williamsburg Unitarian Universalists. His survivors ask contributions be made to that congregation, or to the American Civil Liberties Union. Al0 | Saturday/Sunday, February 22 - 23, 2025
