METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: Stocks
Title: By MicaH MAIDENBERG hen Jared Isaacman gave up his child- hood dream of becoming a NASA astronaut...
ID: 57

CONTENT:
By MicaH MAIDENBERG hen Jared Isaacman gave up his child- hood dream of becoming a NASA astronaut, he still needed to get his adrenaline fix somewhere. He found it after dropping out of high school and build- ing startups, becoming a bil- lionaire in the process. He’s flown jet fighters for fun, in- cluding a Russian MiG-29. And he’s cultivated a deepen- ing connection with Elon Musk, whose company SpaceX helped Isaacman real- ize his goal of reaching orbit. Five months ago, Isaacman popped out of a hatch ona SpaceX-built Crew Dragon craft and into the freezing vacuum of space. The “Po- laris Dawn” mission, which Isaacman partly funded, had journeyed farther from Earth than any human mission in decades. The operation tested new SpaceX-designed suits, show- casing how the private sector has moved to the vanguard of advancing human space flight. It also showed Isaac- man’s own appetite for risk. “You’ve got to push boundaries,” Isaacman said during a 2021 interview with The Wall Street Journal. “You have to go past where we’re comfortable.” President Trump has tapped the entrepreneur to lead the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. If confirmed, Isaacman, 42, would take the controls of a nearly 70-year-old organiza- tion with a $25 billion budget that’s synonymous with space exploration but has struggled in recent years to deliver on some high-profile projects, while facing new competition from China in orbit. The job also would require Isaacman to navigate his re- lationship with Musk, who has a powerful role advising Trump. In a post Thursday on X, Musk said the Interna- tional Space Station should be taken out of orbit sooner than current plans call for, and indicated that NASA should prioritize his and SpaceX’s longtime goal. “Let’s go to Mars,” he wrote. Isaacman, who declined to comment for this article, would bring close ties to Musk and SpaceX, which has at times outpaced NASA’s own capabilities. Both Isaacman and Shift4, the payment-processing com- pany he founded and leads as chief executive, have invested in SpaceX. And while he wouldn’t be the first NASA administrator to have visited space, he would be the first who got there via SpaceX. In a recent post on X, Isaacman said he was eager to earn the trust of the Sen- ate, whose confirmation his job requires. He has cheered the idea of sending humans to Mars, a mission that has driven Musk for decades, and one Trump mentioned during his inauguration speech last month. A date hasn’t been set for any confirmation hearing. Jet-fighter jockey A space fan since he was a kindergartner, Isaacman for a time settled on aviation. Isaacman, who grew up in the New York City suburb of Westfield, N.J., is married with two children and lives near Easton, Pa. He began training as a pilot as he built Shift4 Payments. In 2011, Isaacman co- founded a company called Draken International, which amassed a fleet of jet fighters it uses in so-called adversary- training exercises with mili- tary customers. By 2020, the year Isaac- man took Shift4 public, he was on a phone call with SpaceX, which would later tap Shift4 to handle pay- ments for its satellite-inter- net business, Starlink. Earlier that same year, SpaceX con- ducted its first-ever launch with a human crew on board, taking two NASA astronauts to the space station. Space- flight was on Isaacman’s mind. “T did close the call by making a comment that, ‘Hey, you know, whenever you guys are ready to really open this thing up, keep me in mind because I’m super-interested.’ And they were like, ‘Oh, re- Jared Isaacman emerging from a SpaceX capsule in September, the first space walk by nonprofessional astronauts. ally? Because we might be a little bit closer than you think,” Isaacman said in the 2021 interview. Those conversations evolved into Inspiration4, a 2021 flight that put Isaacman and three other private indi- viduals aboard a SpaceX Crew Dragon vehicle that reached low-Earth orbit. It was one of a series of mis- sions that year that high- lighted the nascent private spaceflight industry, which aims to open up orbit to more people. That mission also led to what Isaacman and SpaceX named the Polaris program— a multiflight effort Isaacman is helping fund that aims to test new SpaceX technolo- gies. The first Polaris opera- tion occurred in September. He and three others used SpaceX-designed spacesuits while in low-Earth orbit, marking the first time non- government astronauts were exposed to the void of space. Running NASA would mean managing an agency with around 18,000 employ- ees who pursue a sprawling set of science and exploration efforts, from building scien- tific rovers to researching cli- mate change. Many at the agency are rattled at the mo- ment, as colleagues prepare for potential layoffs or look to resign under a Trump ad- ministration program. Isaacman has in the past criticized parts of the agency’s program to send hu- mans on deep-space mis- sions, including the rocket that would start those flights, saying its cost means less funding for other NASA pro- grams. Some members of Congress are skeptical of can- celing that vehicle, saying they are worried that poten- tial alternatives won’t be ready soon enough. SpaceX stakes During another interview with the Journal, in mid-No- vember, Isaacman said that he hadn’t had any serious conversations about joining the Trump administration. At the time, he described him- self as politically “hypermod- erate.” About three weeks later, Trump said in a Truth Social post he wanted Isaacman to run the agency. “On my last mission to space, my crew and I traveled farther from Earth than any- one in over half a century,” Isaacman said in a post on X after Trump announced his nomination. “I can confi- dently say this second space age has only just begun.” Isaacman’s ties to SpaceX as an investor, a customer, and, through his payments company, a contractor are likely to face scrutiny. While government aerospace offi- ‘You’ve got to push boundaries,’ said the high-school dropout in a 2021 interview. cials have long had ties to in- dustry, Musk’s privately held SpaceX has garnered a singu- lar role at NASA, generating worries among current and former agency employees Jared Isaacman Air time: Has more than 7,000 flight hours, including more than 100 air shows. Education: Earned a G.E.D. after dropping out, and a bachelor’s degree from Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University. Happy weightless: Says he doesn’t get ill in orbit. New suits: Tested a SpaceX spacesuit during Polaris Dawn mission. Not just robots: Like Elon Musk, Isaacman is a big proponent of sending humans to Mars. about its dependence on the company. SpaceX’s capsules are the only American vehicles certi- fied to ferry astronauts to and from the space station, and it has won a string of big launch contracts as competi- tors have struggled to ramp up flights of their own rock- ets. Over the years, the com- pany has won $15 billion in deals from the agency. Shift4, which last year generated $3.3 billion in reve- nue and recently had a stock- market valuation of about $9 billion, has its own ties to SpaceX. The company, where Isaacman owns 25% of com- mon stock, purchased about $28 million in SpaceX shares in 2021, the same year Shift4 won what Isaacman has called a five-year deal to han- dle payments for Starlink. Isaacman said during an investor event in December that he couldn’t see how Shift4’s work with Starlink would be a problem, given Shift4’s large customer base. He told the Journal during the interview the prior month he had his own per- sonal investment in SpaceX. oldman achs We celebrate the life and legacy of Jonathan Little Cohen, an esteemed partner alumnus of Goldman Sachs. We recognize his lasting contributions over six decades that strengthened the culture of the firm, including his investment in our people and the next generation of leaders, his commitment to integrating our global offices and his role as a trusted advisor and friend to many. His dedicated public service as a Lieutenant in the U.S. Navy and his lifetime commitment to philanthropic causes have left a profound impact. Jonathan Little Cohen 1939 — 2025 B4 | Saturday/Sunday, February 22 - 23, 2025 KK KK THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. EXCHANGE Continued from page B1 other Hermés baubles to move up the list. Ferrari’s blossoming into a luxury leader has restored the fortunes of founder Enzo Ferrari’s son, Piero Fer- rari, and Italy’s Agnelli family, which took control of the company decades ago through its Fiat brand. In the IPO, both families retained stakes that are now worth billions of dol- lars. Another group that has profited from its Ferrari investments: savvy collectors. Most cars are famously depreciating assets—including most standard Ferraris. But the value of rare Ferraris has soared in recent years. A well-preserved example of the previous-generation Ferrari hypercar, dubbed LaFerrari, fetches $3.8 mil- lion, according to Hagerty, a special- ist auto insurer based in Traverse City, Mich. When the model was re- leased in 2013, in a production run of 499 units, the list price before op- tions was $1.4 million. LaFerrari was the company’s first roadworthy hybrid, combining a 12- cylinder “V12” engine with an elec- tric motor to deliver what was then Ferrari’s most powerful production car. The F80 builds on that hybrid tradition, which originated on the Formula One racetrack more than 15 years ago, to deliver even more horsepower—1,200, five or six times that of your average family car— through an eight-speed, twin-clutch automatic transmission. With big butterfly doors and a tiny cockpit, the F80 wears its racing heart on its sleeve. Although Ferrari relies on the po- tential investment return as well as the emotional appeal of flagship models to keep collectors hooked, it disapproves of what it calls “specula- tion” in its products. Last spring, a Houston real-estate broker bought one of Ferrari’s much- hyped Purosangue models, the com- pany’s first four-door vehicle. The list price is close to $460,000 but can approach $1 million with add-on fea- tures. When the broker flipped it, the dealership that had sold him the car sued, saying that he was in breach of a contract giving it right of first re- What’s Driving | Ferrari’s Hot Streak ~ fusal for 12 months after the sale, ac- cording to the plaintiff’s petition. They recently settled without dis- closing terms. Playing Ferrari’s game Anyone with a few hundred thou- sand dollars to spare can buy a regu- lar Ferrari as long as they are willing to wait a couple of years. While the standard models aren’t subject to strictly limited runs, the company still lives by Enzo Ferrari’s scarcity dictum: “Ferrari will always deliver one car less than the market de- mands.” Limited-edition Ferraris are even scarcer, and you can’t just walk into your local showroom and buy one. These range from special versions of regular models to the design-ori- ented “Icona” and, most exclusively, once-in-a-decade hypercars like La- Ferrari and the F80. Such models help keep orders flowing for the company’s entire product range even though they ac- count for a fraction of deliveries— just 7% last year. Collectors had on average bought 10 new Ferraris be- fore qualifying to buy LaFerrari or an Icona, which means icon in Italian, according to Hagerty. Ferrari says that making the cut isn’t just about the number of cars in the garage of a “Ferrarista,” as it calls its fans. “What we try to measure is: What is your interaction with Ferrari?” said Enrico Galliera, the company’s longtime commercial director. The process of establishing a for- mal—albeit secret—hierarchy of cli- ents started when Ferrari set about selling LaFerrari more than a decade ago. Previously, dealers could choose which clients got which cars, a sys- tem that could be abused to reward friends and family. Galliera central- ized control in Maranello. He also noticed that some collec- tors who hadn’t bought a car re- cently were on the potential list. That led to the company’s first rule: To get a LaFerrari, customers needed to have bought a Ferrari within the past three years, as well as own a certain number of vehicles. Betting on the Horses How Ferrari’s new hypercar stacks up Value of selected supercars $5 million 0 2015 20 25 “Original list price Sources: Hagerty; the companies Getty (McLare Photos: Ferrari (F80, LaFerrari); 2025 Ferrari F80 USS. list price Production run of 799 units 1,200 horsepower The F80’s hybrid powertrain includes a six-cylinder engine and three electric motors. The vehicle is currently in pre-production, with deliveries starting late this year. 2014-2017 Ferrari LaFerrari _S 7 - 949 hp le 2014-2015 McLaren P1 903 bhp 2014-2015 Porsche 918 Spyder 887 bhp n, Porsche) Outside the New York Stock Exchange ahead of its IPO in 2015, top. Collector Luc Poirier in his 20,000-square-foot, climate-controlled garage for his 42 Ferraris, above. Its newest hypercar, below. F80 hypercars Ferrari plans to make F80 hypercars available for sale. All have been promised to collectors. the 1960s. Enzo Ferrari, the founder of Ferrari and a racing driver, pictured in Since then, the algorithm has grown more sophisticated, Galliera said, to include the events customers attend, whether they take part in Ferrari’s racing program, whether they have had heritage models re- stored in its classic-car workshop, and many other variables. “We track everything,” he said. Some of the company’s erstwhile fans have tired of playing the game. Jan Otto, who bought his first Fer- rari in the 1980s after receiving an inheritance, got frustrated when he failed to “get on the ladder” for the Ferrari Enzo, the hypercar that pre- ceded LaFerrari. The retired entre- preneur, who set up a business in Florida offering supercar test drives, no longer owns the brand. “Even though I had bought five or six Ferraris and several marquee Fer- raris over the decades, I couldn’t find a dealer that was willing to sell me one,” he said. “I hadn’t quite been as vigilant with my purchases or as ag- gressive as others.” Others are happy to cycle through standard models to keep the invita- tions coming. Roberto de Silvestri, a collector based in Monaco, said he buys stan- dard Ferraris to drive around the fa- mous switchbacks above his home. He typically then trades them for the company’s more exclusive models to keep—and to drive mainly at events like the invitation-only Cavalcade, an annual drive around a scenic part of Europe. “Tf it’s a limited edition, of course you have to use it,” he said, “but more carefully.” Other car brands, particularly those with racing heritages like McLaren, Bugatti and Lamborghini, also create limited-edition models for collectors that come with six- and seven-figure price tags. But those brands haven’t matched the scale of Ferrari’s success at turning a cult following into profit and market value. When Porsche launched its IPO in 2022, it leaned heavily into compari- sons with Ferrari, but the stock has fallen by almost a third since its de- but amid challenges in China and a botched electric-vehicle strategy. With 310,718 cars shipped last year, the German sports car maker is too big to keep Ferrari-style wait lists except for a few models. At the other extreme, smaller su- percar brands struggle to deliver as steady a stream of new vehicles as Ferrari, leading to cash crunches. As- ton Martin’s shares have lost more than 95% of their value since its 2018 IPO. Bahrain’s sovereign-wealth fund took full control of McLaren last year after a period of heavy losses. Ferrari’s luxury-sector aspirations face challenges, too. Unlike a maker of timeless handbags, the company has to outdo itself with each new ve- hicle to please its fans and keep or- ders flowing. A tougher luxury market over the past year may have made that harder. Some secondhand Ferraris have fetched bigger discounts than usual following aggressive price in- creases under Vigna, putting inves- tors on guard. Yet the stock has revved back to record highs since the company re- ported results this month. One cru- cial detail Ferrari disclosed: The or- der book now covers production through the end of 2026. To keep its all-important wait list topped up, Ferrari and its dealers work hard to attract buyers for the regular cars even as they bat away interest in ultraexpensive ones. A favored tactic of James Cham- pion, Ferrari brand manager for H.R. Owen, the carmaker’s London dealer- ship, is asking existing Ferraristi to bring friends or business contacts to events. “The whole Ferrari ethos,” he said, “4g around community and being part of the Ferrari family.” FROM TOP: EDUARDO MUNOZ/REUTERS, BERNARD BRAULT, FERRARI, SERGIO DEL GRANDE/MONDADORI/GETTY IMAGES THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. KKK *K Saturday/Sunday, February 22 - 23, 2025 | BS EXCHANGE Reshaping West Palm Beach Continued from page B1 rant space and 870 hotel rooms across 70 acres of land in West Palm. In trying to lure companies to West Palm, Ross is taking on Sili- con Valley, Wall Street and Miami. He argues that venture-capital and tech firms in California have tired of the state’s high taxes, regula- tion and business climate that’s less friendly than Florida’s. Same for asset-management and finan- cial firms in New York. Ross also senses an opening from what he calls “Miami fatigue,” the sensa- tion that the fast-growing metrop- olis to the south has become too urban, too congested and too ex- pensive. His goal is to create what he calls the “model American city.” It’s a big transition for an area long seen as the poorer sister to nearby Palm Beach, the affluent island of multimillion-dollar man- sions and resorts. “Turning a profit is not the pri- ority,” Ross said. “To create a city where the best and brightest want to live, work and play—it gets your juices going.” In addition to commercial and residential properties, Ross has worked to bring new private schools, a hospital and a Vander- bilt University extension to West Palm. Some locals grouse they are getting priced out as the private schools and yoga studios move in. In response, Ross says he is talk- ing to the city about developing more affordable and workforce housing. At 84 years old and with a life- time full of reshaping major city skylines, Ross has taken on what may be his most ambitious project yet. And West Palm’s multi-phased completion is likely a decade or so away. “This is not proven. I may not be successful,” he acknowledged one recent afternoon while picking at a Nicoise salad in the restau- rant of his West Palm office build- ing. But then a little later, he smiled and said: “This is the most fun I’ve ever had in my life.” Ross founded Related Cos. in New York in 1972, with a focus on developing low- and moderate-in- come apartments. While Related remains one of the country’s big- gest owners of affordable housing, it’s famous today for its luxury re- tail and high-end condos. He moved from developing individual buildings to re-creating neighbor- hoods when he built New York City’s Time Warner Center (now known as Deutsche Bank Center), a luxury mixed-use complex. Then in Los Angeles he launched the Grand LA, a $1 billion hotel, resi- dential and retail complex de- signed by star architect Frank Gehry. By the time he progressed to the $25 billion Hudson Yards proj- ect on the West Side of Manhat- tan, he was building a city within a city. It was one of the most ex- pensive developments ever at- tempted. While the retail compo- nent struggled in the beginning— the Neiman Marcus store closed during early Covid days—and condo sales have been mixed, the offices at Hudson Yards are nearly fully occupied and command some of the highest rents in the city. As Related Cos. branched out with major development projects throughout the U.S. and from Lon- don to Abu Dhabi, the company grew to include 4,000 profession- als and $70 billion in assets owned aks One Flagler, a 25 story Class-. 3 office tow ) inf Pa, i eli. (aan i Um ih i a ale didddddddde adda = One Flagler, tallest building in center, is a Related Ross office in downtown West Palm Beach. Reshaping the city is his most ambitious project yet. Stephen Ross’s properties in West Palm Beach 1] PROPERTY TYPE BB Residential @ Office WEST PALM BEACH Hotel Retail and/or 7 g dining < el 2 = Future Vanderbilt om ie Z 2 graduate campus 5 @ = © Clear Lake The Laurel ao PALM CityPlace) \ GIEAGH b Royal Park Bridge Hilton WPB One Flagler Lake Worth ake Wortl Lagoon , South Flagler House }—- 0.5 miles — Note: Includes select properties that Related Ross has built, acquired or is developing. Locations are approximate. Sources: Related Ross; Palm Beach County or under development around the globe. But Ross decided that his re- maining years would focus on Palm Beach County. After originally owning a vaca- tion home in West Palm, Ross pur- chased an 11,000-square-foot man- sion across the lagoon in Palm Beach for $31.9 million in 2007. During Covid, it became his pri- mary residence—a return of sorts to the sunshine state. Born in De- troit, Ross moved to Miami Beach in high school. He then attended the University of Florida for two years before transferring to the University of Michigan. Last year, Ross stepped down from Related Cos., a transition that had been under way for more than a decade. He is still the firm’s largest shareholder and nonexecu- tive chairman. Rather than luxuriate in retire- ment in Florida, Ross founded Re- lated Ross to focus on what he came to realize during the pan- demic was an unusual opportunity in West Palm. In the late 1980s, West Palm wasn’t the sort of place that at- tracted hedge-fund traders or tech entrepreneurs. Crime and the crack epidemic hit its streets. By the 1990s, local officials began the long slog of improving downtown and the waterfront. er with views of Palm Beach, is one of Ross’s latest buildings in ANNA DEEN/WSJ Ross’s Planned Building Spree OFFICE SPACE CONDOS RETAIL & DINING Ross and Richard Parsons, then-chairman of AOL Time Warner, show a model of New York’s Time Warner Center in Columbus Circle in 2000. The local government took over a strip of land and asked for pro- posals on how to develop it. Ross pounced, won the rights and built a retail complex. In the early days, he rotated through a variety of re- tail tenants, but nothing really gained traction with the local community. Ross pumped more money into the CityPlace project, booting out Macy’s and a movie complex and downtown West Palm Beach and is 95% occupied. Ross selected the Cristallo Quartzite stone for the lobby. signing up retailers he had done business with in New York, like Lululemon and upscale design store Herman Miller. Related Cos. executives back in New York were less enthusiastic at the time, viewing West Palm more as Ross’s passion project than a big moneymaker, say people famil- iar with the matter. West Palm historically didn’t have much office space, partly be- cause many professionals visited only on weekends or for a few weeks in the winter. Then Covid-19 erupted. People in Palm Beach wanted nearby office space and flocked to yard. For Time Warner Center, he devised a new tax structure for him and his joint-venture partners that avoided double transfer tax. “So much of what we did hadn’t been done before from a legal, structural and financial point of view,” said Jay Neveloff, chair of the real-estate practice at law firm Kramer Levin, who worked with Ross on both projects. Ross is adding another layer of complexity in Florida. In a smaller city like West Palm, he needs to provide the sort of infrastructure necessary to support a rapidly growing population such as Palm Beach County, which has expanded by about 50% since 1999 to more than 1.5 million. Business executives worry about their kids’ education, so Ross reached a deal to bring a pri- vate K-12 school to the nearby town of Wellington. It is to be the first nonprofit and U.S.-based campus from a founder of Educa- tion in Motion, a Singapore-based private-school network. It’s ex- pected to cost $350 million to build, and classes are scheduled to begin in three years. He helped orchestrate a deal for the Cleveland Clinic to operate a hospital in West Palm and is con- tributing $50 million toward its $500 million development. He also helped persuade Vanderbilt Uni- versity to open a graduate busi- ness school in about two to three years with construction costs of more than $500 million (another $50 million is coming from Ross). The university was also exploring a new campus in Miami, but Ross helped steer the school to his city. “That really enhances the sta- tus of West Palm,” said Jorge Perez, a longtime friend of Ross’s and the chief executive of Related Group, a Miami-based real-estate firm that was previously affiliated with Related Cos. in New York. “Tt’s sort of a Good Housekeeping seal of approval.” These days, Ross gets up early to work out for 45 minutes and then is at the office by 9:30 a.m. until at least 7:30 p.m. most days. He has given up much of his travel outside of Florida, save for attend- ing Dolphins road games. He still regularly plays 9 to 12 holes of golf, often joined by his fiancée, Lynn Connolly, who once ranked in the top 25 of the LPGA. Bill Washington showed up to hear Ross speak this month at a ribbon-cutting event for his latest West Palm office tower, known as One Flagler. The 75- year-old is a long- Ross’s 360 Rosemary office tower, which opened in 2021. Firms based in the ‘Turning a profit is not time West Palm resi- dent and runs a local Ethiopian res- taurant with his New York metro oe gg wife. He said he ad- area, including Gold- the priority. mires the devel- man Sachs, Black- —STEPHEN ROSS oper’s gleaming tow- Rock and Steve Co- hen’s Point72, opened satellite of- fices in his West Palm tower. Unlike other projects where Ross has major equity partners to help share the risk, he is largely self-funding his West Palm dream, in part by selling minority stakes in his Miami Dolphins football team. Forbes estimates his per- sonal wealth at more than $18 bil- lion. He also owns Hard Rock Sta- dium, where the team plays, and he was instrumental in bringing Formula One racing to Miami. Ross is known for getting com- plex deals across the finish line. At Hudson Yards, he created develop- able land by building a platform on top of a New York City rail ers and considers himself pro-develop- ment, but he worries about the lack of af- fordable housing. “We hear all the time that peo- ple are moving to Georgia because they cannot afford the rents” in West Palm, Washington said. Ross is negotiating to pay the city “several million dollars” to buy a parcel of land in West Palm for another private school, accord- ing to James, the West Palm mayor. The proceeds from the city’s land sale would go toward improvements at a West Palm public school in a lower-income neighborhood. “Ross invested in building a community,” James said. “Not just putting up pretty buildings.” SAUL MARTINEZ FOR WSJ (3), SION TOUHIG/SYGMA/GETTY IMAGES B6 | Saturday/Sunday, February 22 - 28, 2025 THE WALL STREET JOURNAL.
