METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: Stocks
Title: BALANCE DUE 120.88 113.00 7.08 120.08 wa je e@ u ' cae ‘ eoooudOOOOm8O8 ON WINE / LETTIE TEAGUE |...
ID: 98

CONTENT:
BALANCE DUE 120.88 113.00 7.08 120.08 wa je e@ u ' cae ‘ eoooudOOOOm8O8 ON WINE / LETTIE TEAGUE | OFTEN BRING a bottle of wine to a restaurant but never pay a corkage fee. That’s be- cause I live in New Jersey, where most restaurants don’t have liquor licenses. BYOB is not only acceptable but, for me, even necessary. A restaurant with a liquor license may charge diners who wish to bring their own bottles in states where BYOB is legal. The fee and the terms are up to the individ- ual restaurant. Some may charge as little as $10 a bot- tle and allow patrons to bring more than one; some may charge nearly 20 times that and only permit one. While corkage has become more popular in recent years as restaurant wine prices have escalated, it’s a fraught topic among wine profession- als, as I found during my re- cent conversations with res- taurateurs and sommeliers. The topic is particularly touchy in New York, where the cost of running a restau- rant is quite high and the profit margins can be accord- ingly thin. The wine list is of- ten the primary profit center for most restaurants. I there- fore rarely bring my own wine to a restaurant in the city, though I know plenty of collectors who do. My New York-based friend Brad Trent is one such col- lector. “It’s so expensive now to go out to eat that I get re- ally pissed off when they’re charging four times retail for wine,” said Brad. He is par- ticularly irked when he finds a wine listed for $225 that he knows cost $35 retail. (The restaurant would have paid an even cheaper whole- sale price.) Because many restaurants don’t publish their corkage policies online or on their wine lists, Brad’s knowledge of corkage-friendly restau- rants proved invaluable when I was researching the topic. For example, I would not have known that the swanky midtown restaurant the Modern, with its expan- sive (and expensive) wine list, also has a $35 corkage fee—incredibly reasonable for New York City. “We don’t really advertise it,” said the Modern’s beverage director, Arthur Hon. He added, “A reasonable corkage has al- ways been important to Danny,” referring to Danny Meyer, the Modern’s propri- explained, adding that 30-35% of the restaurant’s business is in beverage sales, with an average wine sale of $120 a bottle. He lik- ened the act of bringing wine to a restaurant to bringing one’s own steak. Then why allow corkage at all? I asked. Portale’s corkage policy is in place for diners who bring their own bottles for “a legitimate good reason,” Dolinski replied. He offered the example of a couple who have been saving a bottle of 1982 Chateau Mouton Roth- schild for their anniversary and want to drink it with the While corkage has become more popular in recent years as restaurant wine prices have escalated, it’s a fraught topic. etor and a veteran restaura- teur widely noted for his fo- cus on hospitality. “We have a lot of collec- tors, auction houses and their clients,” Hon noted. I asked if he ever brings his own bottles to restaurants. He does not, unless it is an explicitly BYO-friendly one, like the Peking Duck House in Manhattan’s Chinatown, a popular wine-industry spot where diners not only bring their own bottles but often their own glassware, as well. Michael Dolinski, wine di- rector of Portale restaurant in New York, has an equally impressive wine list and a corkage fee that he calls “reasonable” and will share with customers who call to discuss bringing a bottle. The fee does not appear on the Portale wine list or web- site—a deliberate omission, Dolinski said. “Our business is to sell food and wine,” he chef’s food: “I’m not trying to punish the person who’s doing it right.” Like Hon, Dolinski wouldn’t bring his own wine to a restaurant with a wine list, out of respect for a peer. In states such as Ohio and Colorado, bringing your own bottle to a restaurant with a liquor license is against the law. Ryan Fletter of Barolo Grill in Denver is relieved that he runs a restaurant in one of these places. “From my standpoint you shatter the value and dilute what is a very expensive asset [when you BYOB],” said Fletter, who has spent decades building a substantial cellar of wines, notably a large cache of Barolo. He noted that BYOB, and the bite it takes from the overall bill, would negatively impact his staff, as well. “Servers get smaller tips. It’s punitive to their income,” he said. I certainly think about the latter when I bring my own wine and don’t have to pay corkage at a BYOB restau- rant. I tip as if there were a $75 or $80 bottle on the check, and have done so since I moved from New York to New Jersey. I was surprised, initially, to find that few of my fellow New Jerseyans compensated their servers in this way—though many of the friends with whom I dine now do as well. In California, bringing wine to a restaurant and paying a corkage is a long- established part of the din- ing culture. This is particu- larly true in the Bay Area, where corkage fees tend to be public knowledge, printed on wine lists and/or dis- played on restaurant web- sites. The fees tend to be quite reasonable, too—typi- cally around $35 a bottle. That’s the corkage at San Francisco’s Delfina restau- rant—“around half the price of an average priced/afford- able bottle from our list,” noted co-owner Annie Stoll. Stoll and her husband, Craig, ‘lo BYOB or Not to BYOB? The Thorny Question of Corkage don’t limit the number of bottles a guest can bring, a policy they’ve had in place for many years. They learned their lesson back in 2005, when they instituted a no- BYOB policy at their restau- rant Pizzeria Delfina. It was a deeply unpopular move. “People lost their sh—!” Stoll recalled in an email. “There were rants and diatribes on- line for days. Certain people still haven’t gotten over it.” At another San Francisco restaurant, Kitchen Istanbul, owner Emrah Kilicoglu and wine director Joseph Di- Grigoli have put together one of the city’s most interesting lists. They also opt for a modest $35 corkage fee with a two-bottle limit, and the fee is waived if diners also buy a bottle of wine from the restaurant’s list. DiGrigoli noted that the patrons who bring their own wines are of- ten enthusiastic and knowl- edgeable drinkers. “These guests, being savvy diners and wine drinkers, almost al- ways supplement with great stuff from our list,” he said, adding that they often share tastes of their wines with his restaurant staff. Some restaurant wine di- rectors actively encourage diners to bring their own bot- tles. At Hawksmoor in New York, lead sommelier Gavin Ferrara charges a mere $10 corkage fee on Mondays and advertises that fact on the restaurant’s website. (Corkage costs $50 on the other days of the week.) Ferrara spreads the word about Monday cork- age among his peers, and they respond by bringing cool wines. “It’s fun and entertain- ing. It’s also huge in the in- dustry, and a great opportu- nity to taste some fun stuff.” The pros also buy wines from the list, Ferrara noted: “They support the program.” While I don’t plan to bring my own bottle to a restaurant with a wine list anytime soon, there is one condition under which I might make an exception: When it snows, the corkage at the Modern is free. I can’t think of a better reason to hope for a snowstorm in the next several weeks. Email Lettie at wine@wsj.com Made in Italy hestanculinary.com Ht HESTAN D10 | Saturday/Sunday, February 22 - 23, 2025 ok THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. Are You Missing Out On WSJ Digital Content? Your WSJ subscription goes far beyond the news at your door each day. From audio articles to curated newsletters, explore more with your WSJ digital benefits. Here’s a quick look at additional ways to access WSJ. Newsletters Keep up with your interests with our curated newsletters—included with your subscription and sent directly to your inbox. WSJ.com/printnl Audio Give your eyes a break and instead press play. Listen to the latest audio articles or dig into the topics you care about with our WSJ podcasts. WSJ.com/print_audio The Print Edition App On the go? Page through the digital version instead. Access the subscriber-only app to click through the day’s print articles—and never miss a story. WSJ.com/print_app Email Sharing Grant access to the biggest headlines. Share WSJ stories with your friends and family. Simply click on the share icon above the article to message or copy the link. Look for this @ Not sure how to access WSJ.com with your current print subscription? Visit WSJ.com/digitalaccess THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. © 2025 Dow Jones & Co., Inc. All rights reserved. 6DJO174 THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. KKK *K Saturday/Sunday, February 22 - 23, 2025 | D11 ADVENTURE & TRAVEL
