METADATA:
Source: WSJ
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: Stocks, Bonds
Title: THYSSENKRUPP Buyer Ends Talks For Steel Venture Thyssenkrupp said talks with a potential buyer of...
ID: 67

CONTENT:
THYSSENKRUPP Buyer Ends Talks For Steel Venture Thyssenkrupp said talks with a potential buyer of the Huettenwerke Krupp Man- nesmann steel joint venture have collapsed. The embattled German in- dustrial group, which is seek- ing to improve efficiency and profitability, said Friday that Hamburg investment com- pany CE Capital Partners broke off talks about buying HKM. Thyssenkrupp, which has a 50% share of the joint venture, said that it was open to further talks and to other potential buyers. CE Capital Partners wasn’t immediately available for comment. EV MAKERS Italy Investigates Performance Claims Italy’s competition watch- dog launched investigations into whether Stellantis Eu- rope, Volkswagen Italia, BYD Industria Italia and Tesla Italy failed to inform customers about limitations of their electric-vehicle battery per- formances and warranties. The regulator said Friday rm) = ifm 2 re [4 rm co = S 2 a = So g = Zz oO ws 4 > & The Japanese carmaker in November revealed plan to cut costs. Moody’s said the rating ac- tion reflects Nissan’s weak profitability driven by slowing demand for its aging model portfolio. A slowdown has been evident in China, but now the carmaker faces chal- lenges in the U.S. market as well, it said. The ratings com- pany said the negative out- look took into account the risks associated with imple- menting the carmaker’s new restructuring plan. Nissan, in November, re- vealed a restructuring plan that included cutting 9,000 jobs and reducing its global production capacity by a fifth. —Kosaku Narioka : APPLE : Pulls Security : Feature in U.K. Apple removed its Ad- : vanced Data Protection feature : in the U.K. after the govern- : ment reportedly requested ac- : cess to user data stored on its : iCloud service. The company said on Friday : that the service—which en- : sures only users can access : files such as photos and docu- : ments that are encrypted on : Apple’s iCloud storage—will no : longer be available to new us- : ers and current U.K. users will : need to eventually disable the crypto heist of all time, Certik : security feature. “We are gravely disap- : pointed that the protections : provided by ADP will not be : available to our customers in —Vicky Ge Huang : beeen cede eee e ease bees ee ea ents eneas : rise of data breaches and other : threats to customer privacy,” a : spokesperson for the company : said, adding that securing per- : sonal data access in the cloud : with end-to-end encryption is the U.K. given the continuing “more urgent than ever.” The move comes after the : Washington Post and BBC re- : ported earlier this month that : U.K. government officials asked : Apple to create a so-called : back door that gives them ac- : cess to content any Apple user : uploads to the cloud. “Apple re- : mains committed to offering : our users the highest level of : security for their personal data : and are hopeful that we will be : able to do so in the future in : the United Kingdom,” they : said. “As we have said many : times before, we have never : built a backdoor or master key : to any of our products or ser- : vices and we never will.’ —Pierre Bertrand : —Edith Hancock that it was looking into whether the carmakers failed to fully disclose information on the loss of EV battery ca- pacity or on the limitations of the conventional battery war- ranty. It will also assess whether the companies pro- vided contradictory informa- tion on the mileage range. The companies didn’t im- mediately respond to a re- quest for comment. —Helena Smolak THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. KKK *K Saturday/Sunday, February 22 - 23, 2025 | B11 MARKETS & FINANCE Economie Worries Rattle U.S. Stoeks Index performance this past week 0.5% 0 = -0.5 Y -1.0 -15 Lg S&P 500 : Nasdaq Composite §§ Dow Jones Industrial Average -2.5 -3.0 10-minute intervals i] T T i] Tues. Wed. Thurs. Fri. Source: FactSet Stocks erased much of their gains from the week Friday af- ter investors tapped the brakes in response to signs of a lack- luster economy. All three indexes fell more than 1%, with the Dow and S&P 500 notching their big- gest one-day FRIDAY’S drops so far MARKETS this year. Indi- ————— cators pub- lished in the morning showed service industry weakness and a 4.9% drop in sales of exist- ing homes last month. A re- port last week showed retail sales also fell in January. “The data is just piling up day after day,” said Jay Hat- field, chief executive at Infra- structure Capital Advisors. The Dow fell 1.7% to close at 43428. The S&P 500 fell 1.7% to close at 6013.13, and the Nasdaq Composite fell 2.2% to 19524. The losses off- set gains made by the S&P earlier in the week, when it hit closing highs two days in a row. Ten-year Treasury yields fell 0.08 to 4.419% as prices rallied after investors favoring caution bought up bonds. Flagging healthcare stocks also weighed down the Dow. UnitedHealth stock dropped 7% Friday after The Wall Street Journal reported the Justice Department was prob- ing its Medicare billing prac- tices and how the company re- cords diagnoses. UnitedHealth’s high stock price means it has a sizable ef- fect on the price-weighted Dow. Other healthcare stocks includ- ing Humana and CVS Health also sold off. Shares of Novo Nordisk, the company behind blockbuster obesity drugs Wegovy and Ozempic, rallied after the Food and Drug Administration said shortages in those drugs had been resolved. And investors gave a cool initial reception to a plan by the president’s media company to start an investing fund. Shares in Trump Media & Technology, the parent company of the Truth Social platform, fell 3% after a morning rally. In global markets, enthusi- asm about artificial intelli- gence is bubbling up again— this time in Asia. Alibaba sparked a fierce rally, a day af- ter the Chinese e-commerce and cloud-computing company reported strong results from its AI strategy and pledged more aggressive investment in this area. The Hang Seng Index surged 4% to its highest close in just under three years. Oil prices declined. Brent- crude futures slipped to about $74 a barrel, breaking a four- session rising streak. For the week, the Dow fell 2.5% to 43428.02, the Nasdaq dropped 2.5% to 19524.01 and the S&P 500 Index fell 1.7% to 6013.13. The yield on the 10- year Treasury declined 0.057 to 4.419% this week and the yield on the 2-year Treasury fell 0.066 to 4.192%. —RHeather Gillers and Caitlin McCabe U.K.s CMA Fines Banks For Sharing Competitive Gilt Pricing
