METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: Commodities
Title: EERSTE EE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE ...
ID: 113

CONTENT:
EERSTE EE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EE EEE EE EH EE EEEEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EE EE EEE EEE EEE EE EE EE EEE EE EEE EEE CHEE EE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EE EE EEE CHEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE E EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EE EE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE ERED EEE EEE EEE EEE EE MEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEEE EEE EEE EE CHEE EEEEEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EH CHEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEEEEEEEEEEE HEE EEEEEEE Alexander Gabuev hen Vladimir Putin ordered the full-scale invasion of Ukraine three years ago, it wasa watershed moment akin to that of 9/11. Russia’s assault on its neighbour, though rooted in the country’s piecemeal journey into the darkness, was not inevitable. Once it happened, however, the war changed the course of history. The perfect storm of challenges facing western leaders is unprecedented in living memory, and managing the relationship with a rogue Russia is one of the most consequential. Now entering its fourth year, the war has devastated Ukraine, the main vic- tim of unnecessary horror unleashed by the Kremlin. Russia is a distant second, but nevertheless the war is a strategic There are no shortcuts to manage the Russia challenge disaster for it, too — particularly if measured against all the peaceful alter- native trajectories the country could have taken. The sad irony is that by invading Ukraine, Putin has created long-term security challenges for Russia that didn’t exist before. Three years ago, it was hardly conceivable that western missiles would be fired at military tar- gets inside Russia with near impunity, that a non-nuclear country would occupy Russian territory, that Finland and Sweden would join Nato, and that Moscow's much-prized special relation- ship with Germany would be ruined. Yet all of that has come to pass. What’s more, Putin has turned Ukrainians into an aggrieved nation armed to the teeth and looking for ways to settle scores for atrocities committed by those who used to call them “brothers”. Russia has indeed suffered “a strate- gic defeat,” as then US secretary of state Antony Blinken said in March 2022 as the offensive against Kyiv collapsed, humiliating Russia. But fast forward to 2025, and the picture is far worse than the triumphalist expectations many in the west preached to their publics and to Ukrainians. Russia has absorbed the setbacks and, notwithstanding soaring casualties and destroyed equipment, is pushing against the battered Ukrainian military. Moreover, the Kremlin has embarked on military reconstitution. By 2030, its war machine is likely to be bigger and better. Faced with a tsunami of western sanc- tions, the Russian economy was expected to be in tatters long ago. But unlike the USSR, it runs on market prin- ciples and is managed by able techno- crats. The country is also an important exporter of oil and other commodities that are difficult to fully cut off without disrupting global markets. This, as well as self-interested support from China and other non-western countries, explains both the gradualism in sanc- tions as well as Russia's resilience. Finally, Russian society — atomised even before the war — has been cowed by repression, and the similarly atom- ised elites have rallied around Putin. Then, in the most surprising plot twist, Putin got lucky with the election in the US of Donald Trump, who seeks to end the war and curtail American involvement. The war has been ona negative trajectory for some time — at least since Ukraine’s botched 2023 counteroffensive. But the election of Trump makes the problem much worse. Despite Trumps diplomatic cavalry charge, the Kremlin will continue to view the west as a Mortal enemy The Kremlin hopes that since he is look- ing for a quick deal, it can also be a dirty deal that will simply cease hostilities but leave Ukraine with no credible security guarantees and set it on a path of implo- sion — including through polarising presidential elections. Whatever the unpredictable outcome of Trump’s diplomatic cavalry charge, one thing is clear: even if the guns in Ukraine fall silent, and even if Trump lifts US sanctions against Russia, the current regime in the Kremlin will con- tinue to view the west as a mortal enemy. Putin’s triumphalism, vengeful- ness and desire to make a mark on Rus- sian history, along with the glaring lack of checks and balances in the Kremlin, will prompt Moscow to start preparing for the next war while stepping up its intimidation campaign against Europe. Three years ago, western capitals believed Kyiv would fall in a matter of days. A combination of Ukrainian cour- age and ingenuity, Russian sloppiness, and western support averted that sce- nario. Ukraine is still standing, Europe has painfully reduced its dependency on Russian raw materials and invest- ments in deterrence have been made. But by other metrics, the situation for Europeans is worse than in early 2022. Progress in upgrading the defence industrial base remains patchy. The dif- ficult post-Covid recovery was derailed in many countries by the impact of the war, making increased defence spend- ing a hard sell for voters. Most impor- tantly, instead of its traditional role as the bedrock of European security, the US under Trump is itself a source of risk. To top it all, unity inside the EU and within larger countries is more frac- tured. Even if competent road maps such as the Draghi report are drawn up to address these problems, will there be the political will to follow them? One problem that the west can and should address is its wishful thinking about shortcuts to defeat Putin and manage the Russia challenge. Unrealis- tic expectations of an outright victory, rooted in a glaring lack of clear-eyed perspective, have been part of the prob- lem all along. It’s time to have a quiet, sober-minded conversation about how to mitigate the threats that will emanate from Russia in the coming decade, and how to prepare for what might come next. The writer is director of the Carnegie Russia Eurasia Center in Berlin COE EERE EEE EERE EERE EEE EEE OEE EE EEE CEE EEE EERE EERE EEE Ee EERE EEE EEE CEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE CEE EEE EE CRETE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EERE CEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EE EERE EERE EEE EEE DEERE EEE E EERE ROE E EEO Tee ee eee eee Cee eee eee eee eee ee ee eee eee eee ee ee ee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee Tee eee ee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee ee eee ee eee eee ee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee eee eee ee Cee ee eee eee eee Cee eee eee ee eee Pee eee eee eee ee eee ee ee ee eee ers ee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee eee eee ee eee Tee eee eT eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee ee ee eee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee ee ee eee eee eee eee Ce eee ee eee eee Pee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee ee eee Cee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE CER EEE EEO E EEE EEE EERE EEE EERE CERO EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EERE EEE EEE AE EE EEE EE EEE EE EEE EE EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE OEE EE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE CHEER EEE EEE EE CHEE EEE OEE EEE AEE EEE EE EERE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EE EERE EEE OEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE E EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EH EERE EO EE By-the-book lawyer is the latest to defend the integrity of an imperilled justice system, writes Stefania Palma enise Cheung has been a household name in Wash- ington’s legal circles for decades. But the veteran federal prosecutor this week was catapulted to national notori- ety after resigning for rejecting orders from superiors appointed by President Donald Trump. After serving at the US Department of Justice for more than 24 years, the head of the criminal division at the powerful US attorney's office in Washington on Tuesday quit after declining to open a probe into whether a federal agency had illegally awarded a contract during ex- President Joe Biden’s administration. The order had been issued by the office of the acting deputy attorney-general, Emil Bove. In her resignation letter to Ed Martin, the acting US attorney in Washington, Cheung said she had not found enough evidence to launch the investigation, while Martin insisted “there was suffi- cient evidence”. After refusing to move ahead because “I believed that I lacked the legal authority .. . You then asked for my resignation,” she wrote. Cheung has become the latest symbol of resistance against an administration that has taken aim at federal prosecu- tors, laying off DoJ lawyers who worked on cases targeting Trump, pressuring others to launch or drop investigations and instructing the dismissal of “Biden Era” US attorneys. Her departure comes after a string of Manhattan’s top prosecutors, including Danielle Sassoon, the Trump-appointed US acting attorney for the Southern District of New York, quit last week following an order from the government to drop the corruption prosecution of New York City mayor Eric Adams. Transfers of power typically lead to some turnover at the DoJ, but it is less common for career prosecutors to be ousted. Cheung “is somebody who’s a real career person, who's used to changes in policies. You don’t resign every four years if there’s a change in administra- tion,” says Andrew Weissmann, who encountered her when he was FBI gen- eral counsel between 2011 and 2013. “To me it signifies that this was such a big deal that she could not stomach it because she thought it was either unethical or unlawful.” The crackdown on lawyers, critics argue, risks turning the Do] into the per- sonal enforcement branch of a presi- dent who has pledged to seek retribu- tion against opponents, including Nancy Pelosi and Kamala Harris. Do] leadership has denied there would be undue influence from the White House. The US is facing a “transformation” from a country “trying to adhere to the rule of law” to one that “is much closer, if not an exact mirror of, coun- tries like Hungary, Russia. . . that are real threats to the various forms of democracy that exist” elsewhere, says Weissmann. But a DoJ spokesperson described Cheung’s resignation not as “an act of heroism — just a failure to follow chain of command”. Person in the News | Denise Cheung The US prosecutor resisting the president Bove says that the DoJ’s “shared fight” included “ending weaponised govern- ment” and that for “those who do not support our critical mission, I under- stand there are templates for resigna- tion letters available on the websites of the New York Times and CNN.” The US attorney's office in Washington did not respond toa request for comment. After graduating from Harvard Law School in 1995, Cheung rose through the ranks of the US attorney’s office in Washington, one of the country’s most high-profile bureaus that handles cases ranging from public corruption and espionage to local crime. She went on to advise former attorneys-general Eric Holder and Loretta Lynch on areas including counterterrorism and cyber security. “Her career spans doing the tough, gritty job of prosecuting homicides in the District of Columbia, to advising the attorney-general on some of the most politically sensitive national security and white-collar matters that the DoJ handles,” says Howard Sklamberg, a partner at Arnold & Porter who previ- ously worked with Cheung. “There are not that many prosecutors who can be switch-hitters that way.” Washington’s legal insiders describe Cheung as well respected — a by-the- book prosecutor who, unlike many in Her move has intensified an already fraught political debate in Americas capital the capital, does not chase the limelight. “She is a person of incredibly high integ- rity,” says Sklamberg, who was also in Cheung’s Harvard graduating class. “If you asked me to list 100 prosecutors that someone might criticise for having a political bias, she wouldn't even be close to being on that list.” In her resignation letter, Cheung said lowing the facts and the law and com- legal obligations.” ical influence,” they said. But beyond all the clamour, Sklam- | berg simply felt “sorrow” upon learning of Cheung’s departure. “She's anincred- : ibly talented person ... Losing herasa : public servant is a great loss.” stefania.palma@fi.com How Washington plans to defend the dollar Gillian Tett our years ago, the Bank for International Settlements (BIS) — the central bankers’ central bank — unveiled an innovation project that car- 3 ried the ugly moniker “mBridge”. This aimed to create a cross-border : central bank digital currency linking : the central banks of China, Hong Kong, : Thailand, UAE and (latterly) Saudi : Arabia. You might think this is arcane. If so, : think again: the geeky project symbol- ' ises a bigger battle that could matter : deeply under US President Donald More specifically, last autumn, just . before the US election, the BIS unex- : pectedly pulled out of mBridge, in effect : ceding control to China and the rest. BIS : claimed this was just because it had ' reached “minimal viable product” : stage. But few believe this. “The Ameri- 3 cans demanded [the BIS] stop because : it’s a threat,” one participant tells me, : explaining that Washington worried : that “it might be used to evade [dollar] : sanctions”. And while Agustin Carstens, BIS head, : publicly denied that, speculation bub- : bles on — not least because Trump is : undeniably on the monetary warpath: : on Truth Social last month he repeated : threats to impose “100% Tariffs” on : countries trying to “replace the mighty : U.S. Dollar” with new currencies or pay- : ments systems. So investors should watch what hap- : pens next. For while it is Trump’s : threats around trade tariffs that have : been grabbing headlines recently, this 7 less-visible fight around money matters : deeply. After all (as I have noted : before), it is the dollar-based global : financial system that is the real source of : America’s hegemonic power today, and : which Washington wants to defend. On paper, Trump has no reason to : worry. Recent data from the IMF shows : that the dollar accounts for about 58 per : cent of central bank reserves. This is : slightly lower than at the start of the : century, but recent diversification has : mostly involved smaller currencies — : notrivals suchas the euro or renminbi. she remained “committed to the oath : that I took. ..1 know that all of the : AUSAs [assistant United States attor- : neys] in the Office will continue to : uphold that pledge they have taken, fol- _ : : gold “at an eye-watering pace”, as the plying with their moral, ethical, and : : Thatsuggests a desire to hedge their fiat Her move has intensified an already : fraught political debate in Washington. : Democratic senators including Bernie : Sanders and Edward Markey on : Wednesday sent the DoJ’s inspector- : general a letter asking to open an inves- : tigation into her resignation. “The integ- rity of our justice system depends onthe : independence of prosecutors and their : ability to enforce the law free from polit- More striking, Swift data suggests that 49.1 per cent of all payments were in dollars last year, a 12-year high. But there are three crucial caveats. First, central banks are hoovering up World Gold Council recently noted. dollar exposure. Second, the Swift data may be a little misleading since activity is swelling out- side western platforms. China is build- ing its own Cross-Border Interbank Pay- ment System. This is small and rudi- mentary, but it has 160 members and Top reads at FT.com/opinion @ The US must play to its strengths to compete with China in Latin America Washington can no longer afford to stand idle, writes Robert Mosbacher Jr transaction volume has jumped 80 per cent since 2022. Third, Washington’s financial weap- onisation seems to be fuelling — not halting — efforts by others to imagine alternatives. Hence why mBridge mat- ters: if those digital pipes ever work at speed and scale (a big “if”), this would challenge the “hub and spoke” system centred on the US Federal Reserve. So how will Washington respond? Chris Giancarlo, head of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission during the first Trump administration, hopes it will use carrots — ie policies that make dollar usage utterly compelling for non- Americans. That means championing good economic “values”, he tells me, and embracing more cyber innovation. A “digital dollar project” he co-leads will outline how to do this next week. This is eminently sensible. But Trump seems minded to use sticks. Last month he issued an executive order banning any central bank digital currency usage in America, since they “threaten the sta- bility of the financial system, individual privacy, and the sovereignty of the United States”. Instead, he championed bitcoin (never mind that this is viewed as a fiat dollar hedge). More significantly, he also backed the “growth of lawful and legitimate dollar-backed stablecoins worldwide”. This might seem odd, not least because it is diametrically opposed to the European Central Bank. Some cyn- ics will undoubtedly attribute it to the Trade tariffs have been srabbing headlines, but the less-visible fight around money matters deeply fact that Howard Lutnick, commerce secretary, helped to build tether, the biggest existing coin. But, there is another factor, too: Trump’s team think stablecoins might be a secret weapon to promote more — not less — dollarisation. “It’s very good for us,’ one tells me. That is because 21st-century stablecoins — like the 20th-century eurodollar market — ena- ble transactions in offshore dollars that are free from onerous onshore regula- tions. This appeals to many financiers grappling with geopolitical risk (even if stablecoins, unlike eurodollars, do not pay returns). In practice, the current market cap of stablecoins — about $220bn — is still piddling compared with eurodollars, let alone the $6tn-odd US capital markets. But the key point is this: as Trump keeps trying to remake — or smash up — the postwar geopolitical order, it is not just tariffs and tanks that matter; finan- cial plumbing does too. These nascent battles about CBDC and stablecoins could well “take centre stage this year”, as the Atlantic Council notes. Anyone know how to parse mBridge in Chinese? li Of e Science suggests we should stop using ‘bird brain’ as a barb Avian and mammalian cognition may be closer than we think, writes Anjana Ahuja 10 * FT Weekend 22 February/23 February 2025 Rough Dimon JPMorgan chief’s blast on remote work, lack of focus and bloat highlights sector bugbear of complacency © pace 14 Companies & Markets POPU UEC ECSU ES CUCU C CCC CCC COS CUCU CC CCCP OCCT CUCU CCCP CTC CU CPSP CET CCC CES CEU OTC CCC CCPC UCC CUCU CTC OCCU UEP CUCU SPOUT EPEC C CC CUU CTO COC CCC CP OCC CECC TCC C CC OCCU CEC OCC CUCU CECE OC UCU CUCU PCC C CCC CCC CPC CUCU COTO e CTS PEP C STOP ECC UCU OCT C UCSC POCO U TT CEP C CUCU PCC eE ee CUCU ECU CCT OCCES CUCUCUUCOC CCU COC T CPCS COCO ET CUCU CTC EUC CCPC OCT TEPC U CCU CCE CEPCC CCU OCCC CCCP OCCT CeCe CCC CT OE CU COTES UCC C OCCT CCPC CCU U CUO CPO CT CTC CCCP CCC TEC CCCP CCCC UT CCUC CTT CC CUCU e CECT CC USU ETOP OCT C CSCC CUO CST Cee eee
