METADATA:
Source: FT
Date: 2025-02-22
Categories: Commodities
Title: TTT PTET TE EEE LLL LLL LLL LLL LLL LLL LLL LLL LL The Met | A virtuoso of close observation, Cas...
ID: 149

CONTENT:
TTT PTET TE EEE LLL LLL LLL LLL LLL LLL LLL LLL LL The Met | A virtuoso of close observation, Caspar David Friedrich was at his ultimate best when painting his wife, writes Ariella Budick he paintings of Caspar David Friedrich hover between the sublime and the syrupy, occasionally touching down on either side of that surprisingly narrow divide. There are the ravishingly misted, blue- lit swaths of wilderness, vibrating with the stirrings of a searching spirit. Ralph Waldo Emerson might have been describing them when he wrote: “The world is emblematic . . . the whole of nature is a metaphor of the human mind.” And then there are cloying dawns and villainous clouds, glades and peaks so operatic that they infused the classic Disney aesthetic. In the nearly two centuries since his death, Friedrich’s style has become so universal and familiar that it’s hard to see on its own terms. The literary over- tones of the northern landscape, the political meanings of medieval architec- ture, the tension between realism and religion or between democratic urges and political stability, the ruefulness of an urbanising Europe — all these spe- cific historical elements have amalga- mated into a timeless romanticism. But the artist who emerges from the Metropolitan Museum’s Caspar David Friedrich: The Soul of Nature is a more nuanced and complex figure than his few famous pictures suggest. His early sketches and ink-wash drawings reveal a virtuoso of close observation. He reproduced the intricacies of plant life with the passionate precision of a bota- nist and turned an architect’s eye on the moodiness of ruined abbeys. But he also infused those details with transforma- tive power. The hollow ofa tree takes on the shape of an owl. A branch becomes an arm. Tiny cross-hatchings cohere into a boulder that vibrates with divine purpose. Friedrich issued his own dic- tum: “A painter should paint not only what he sees before him, but also what Clockwise from above: Caspar David Friedrich’s “Woman at the Window’ (1822); “Two Men Contemplating the Moon’ (c1825-30); ‘Woman Before the Setting Sun’ (1818); ‘Wanderer above the Sea of Fog’ (c1817); ‘Cross in the Mountains’ (1812) The Metropolitan Museum of Art In scene after scene, Friedrich invites us into his world, inserting the viewer as a tiny avatar, always shown from behind It’s a bit of a shock to realise that the Met show is the first comprehensive Friedrich exhibition in the US. I’ve only ever seen most of the works here in reproduction, so I'm grateful to curators Alison Hokanson and Joanna Sheers Seidenstein for pulling together so many of them, from such a range of sources. In scene after scene, Friedrich invites us into his world, inserting the viewer as a tiny avatar, always shown from behind. We are the pair of friends gazing upon a golden moonrise from beneath a scraggy oak. We are the woman stretching her arms to the rising (or setting) sun, bathing in its life-affirming brilliance. We are the hiker atop a lonely peak. The man in “Wanderer above the Sea of Fog” (c1817) sports a green velvet suit and bleached white collar, as if he had strolled out of the city and up into the wilds on a whim. He can't get a clear view of where he’s come from or where he’s going, since the world at his feet is beset by clouds of uncertainty, but there’s something privileged about his In the cultural language of the early 19th century, wandering had both spir- itual and political resonance. It was a way to link personal development, Bil- dung, with national landscape — to become more fully human (and more authentically German) by seeking a bond with nature. Friedrich’s “Wan- derer” is often associated with Schu- bert’s song cycle Winterreise (1827), in he sees within himself.” perch and consoling in that panorama. which a melancholy loner stumbling through the snow torments himself with memories of a love-filled spring. The ultimate fusion of human yearn- ing and nature’s mystery occurs in “Monk by the Sea” (1808-10). A robed figure stands between desolate shore and brooding storm. The low horizon throws up an expanse of darkest blue, which rises from black waters towards looming clouds. Friedrich’s subject is the ceaseless struggle against the unfathomable. The poet Heinrich von Kleist was stunned when he saw the painting at the Berlin Academy in 1810. “Nothing can be sadder and more discomforting than this position in the world: the only spark of life in the vast realm of death, the lonely centre of a lonely circle. The pic- ture... lies there like an apoca- lypse ... and since, in its uniformity and boundlessness, it has nothing but the frame in the foreground, when a person beholds it, it is as if his eyelids have been cut off.” Kleist shot himself within a year of writing those words. In its resounding abstraction, “Monk by the Sea” looks ahead to Turner, who tucked the sublime between layers of colour, and, more presciently still, to Mark Rothko’s glowing rectangles. But Friedrich was often explicit in his use of Christian iconography. In an 1812 ver- sion of “Cross in the Mountains”, a Gothic church and towering spruces needle up towards a rose-coloured sky. The whole scene is replete with religious symbols. In the middle distance, a cruci- fix rises above a stream (of life) that flows past slick rocks (signifying spirit- ual struggle) and broken branches (suf- fering and sin, a crown of thorns) intoa pinkish pool (the blood of Christ). German romantics found in the organic forms of gothic architecture an analogue for their native forests. Here, the structure and its rose surroundings suggest a poetic interjection into the prose of daily life. At the same time, Friedrich’s eye for detail is so meticu- lous and his brush so deft, that you can choose to read this forest of coded emblems as, well, an actual forest. Even the cross is a stroke of realism, the sort of wooden marker that might greet a hiker at the juncture of two paths. That motif recurs regularly, as a signpost with multiple meanings. “To those who seek it, [itis] a consolation,” Friedrich wrote, “to those who don't, it’s just a cross.” That ambiguity isn’t enough, though, to rescue this “Cross in the Mountains” from kitsch, composed with relentless symmetry, and suffused by a holy radi- ance that might have been squeezed from a tube. In his best works, Friedrich treated nature as a projection of existen- tial anxieties; in the weakest, he com- mandeered it as a pretty backdrop for ritual uplift. My favourite Friedrich is the most uncharacteristic. “Woman at the Win- dow” (1822), arare interior, quivers, not with grand struggles of the soul, but with more intimate affections. We see the subject, as always, from behind, yet she’s no generic human prop, positioned there for scale. She’s the artist’s wife Caroline, standing on the wide floor- boards of their bare house in Dresden and looking out over the River Elbe. The pale light of an early spring flows in through the window, dressing her in the colours of water, woods, sunshine and moss. She has no need to wander or climb, or even to leave the city. Nature comes to her. To May 11, metmuseum.org CEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EET REET EEE ETE EEE TEETH EEE EEE EET TEETER EERE EEE EHH EEE EEE EEE EET THEE EEE EEE EEE EEE THEE EEE TEETH EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE THEE EEE EEE EEE MEET EE EEE EEE ETE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE OEE EE ETE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EET EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE ETE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE ETE EE EEE EEE EEE TERETE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE TEETH ETE ETE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EE Ee EEE EEE EEE EEE THEE EEE EEE EH ETE EEE EEE EE ETE EEE ET EEE EES TEP U ETE ECE CEE eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee ee ee eee eee ee ee eee eee ee eee ee eee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee ee eee ee eee ee eee eee TERT T EEE ET CETTE TT ee ee Theres areason Banksys prices are still riding high The Art Market | He's the ultimate outsider-insider artist, balancing rebellion with celebrity owners — even if not everyone is a fan. By Melanie Gerlis veryone wants their art to go up in value, but even a multi- platinum pop-punk star can find there is such a thing as too much appreciation. News comes this week that the Blink-182 vocalist Mark Hoppus is selling Banksy’s “Crude Oil (Vettriano)”, after a recent revaluation estimated it at up to £5mn — far above its original 2005 price of £15,000 and the likely £250,000 paid by Hoppus six years later. For the hand-painted “Crude Oil (Vet- triano)”, the British street artist hijacks Jack Vettriano’s familiar “The Singing Butler” (1992), in which a couple in black tie dance on a rainy beach whilea butler and maid hold up umbrellas. Banksy’s additions turn the sentimental scene into a piece about the environ- mental crisis: two hazmat-suited men grapple with a barrel of toxic waste as an oil tanker sinks in the distance. Hoppus, who bought the Banksy when such works were selling for between £200,000 and £300,000, says that he and his wife, Skye, “were hon- estly shocked at the [latest] estimate”. The painting had hung in their family homes in London and then Los Angeles and “borne witness to soccer balls being kicked far too close, and half-drunk friends leaning an eye’s length away with a glass full of wine asking suspi- ciously if this is really a Banksy and, if so, can they touch it. Jesus,” he says. Consequently, “we started becoming more protective of its wellbeing . . . like ‘hey man, why don't you take that cigar outside’,” Hoppus says. They decided to get it professionally stored “in some inconspicuous secure facility in the greater Los Angeles area,’ Hoppus says, with undisguised disgust. Now, he says, they are “setting it free from its wooden crate”, and an unspecified portion of the funds has been earmarked for medical charities in LA and the Califor- nia Fire Foundation. Banksy has won over other celebrity owners such as Brad Pitt, Angelina Jolie and Robbie Williams. The artist also appeals to the crypto crowd, likely asa reflection of their own anti-establish- ment mantras. “Banksy has carefully negotiated the worlds of being under- ground and mainstream at the same time,” says Oliver Barker, Sotheby’s chair of Europe, who will auction the work in London on March 4. Money does muddy the waters, though. Steve Lazarides, Banksy’s former manager and gallerist, says: “None of us even knew you could make money out of this, we believed in the movement. The artists had something to say and took it to the street, where it was supposed to be, for millions of people.” At the same time, he says, “making [the artists ] keep it real just means that the only people who can make money are the sons and daughters of Below: Banksy’s ‘Crude Oil (Vettriano)’ (2005) — sanisy billionaires”. He notes that artists such as Banksy earn only a cut of a work’s original price (generally 50 per cent) rather than making gains from second- ary-market sales, as happen at auction. And while Hoppus’s painting might have shot up in value, Banksy’s market is in fact past its peak. This came between 2019 and 2021, thanks to the infamous shredding incident. A reminder: at an October 2018 Sotheby’s auction, the artist managed to smugglea shredding device into the painting “Girl with Balloon” (2006) — animage ofa sil- houetted child reaching for a heart- shaped balloon that was once voted the UK’s favourite artwork. It isn’t known if the intention was to destroy the work completely, but con- veniently — for the art trade at least — the device stopped halfway through and its winning bidder agreed to keep the partially torn work, renamed “Love is in the Bin”, and bought for £1mn. The pub- licity helped boost Banksy’s market, which ArtTactic finds topped in 2021 when the same painting came back to Sotheby’s and sold for the artist’s record of £18.6mn. Such multi-million-pound sales for original paintings make up the bulk in value of Banksy’s secondary-market sales, which by volume are dominated by his lower-priced editioned prints. This area is problematic though — Banksy’s simple imagery and guerrilla activity has invited many forgeries, of both his commercial works and street pieces. Most auction houses now won't accept any works removed from walls, however carefully, and defer to Banksy’s management and authentication com- pany, Pest Control, which issues certifi- cates and has a “Keeping It Real” service that refunds owners its fee if a work is found to bea fake. Not everyone is a fan. The gimmicks can wear thin while his artistic skills are hardly revolutionary. At the same time, and helping to keep his prices high, is the fact that while Banksy has not disap- peared, he seems to have stopped mak- ing new work for the commercial mar- ket. “There is pretty much nothing available,” Barker confirms, which adds to the demand when such works appear. Can we expect another shredding incident at the March 4 auction? “I hope not,” Barker says, having presided over the 2018 stunt. “The one thing we know about Banksy is that he never returns to the scene of the crime.” 22 February/23 February 2025 FT Weekend
