METADATA:
Source: Barrons
Date: 2025-02-24
Categories: Stocks, Energy, Inflation
Title: CULLEN FUNDS “Emerging Markets are broad and vast; we believe that investing in long term themes,...
ID: 5

CONTENT:
CULLEN FUNDS “Emerging Markets are broad and vast; we believe that investing in long term themes, while following a valuation and dividend discipline make a lot of sense in this market environment.” Rahul Sharma Portfolio Manager, Executive Director The Cullen Emerging Markets High Dividend Fund (CEMFX) W www.cullenfunds.com Bee ; \ 212.644.1800 3 info@cullenfunds.com aR meee An investor should consider the investment objectives, risks, charges and expenses of the fund carefully before investing. To obtain a prospectus containing this and other information, please visit www.cullenfunds.com or call 646-200-1800. Read the prospectus carefully before investing. Cullen Capital Management, LLC. (CCM) is an independent investment advisor registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and is doing business as Schafer Cullen Capital Management, Inc. (SCCM). The Cullen Funds Trust (CFT), SCCM and CCM are affiliates. This information should not be used as the primary basis for any investment decision nor should it be considered as advice to meet your particular investment needs. Investing involves risks, including loss of principal and may not suitable for all investors. The Fund is distributed by Paralel Distributors LLC. Paralel is unaffiliated with Cullen Capital Management. Comcast (CMCSA / Nasdaq) $50 45 40 35 30 25 2023 '24 '25 Source: FactSet history, analysts weren’t happy that revenue was up less than 2% during the year. “Closing the Books on a Miserable 2024” was how Moffett titled his re- port, noting ongoing broadband losses and the stock being 40 percentage points behind the S&P 500 over the prior year. The stock fell 10% in the wake of the earnings news, although it has since recouped much of that loss. The company didn’t give 2025 guid- ance, but investors were rattled by a comment by Comcast President Mi- chael Cavanagh that broadband “com- petitive conditions remain intense, dynamic, and varied” with “no signs of this changing in the near term.” elecom companies like AT&T are taking on Com- cast in broadband with fi- ber, as well as fixed wireless internet services that offer less speed than cable broadband but are also less expensive. Consumers increasingly have two—or more—choices for home broadband. Looming, as well, is po- tential competition from Elon Musk’s satellite-based service Starlink. Comcast’s plan is to more aggres- sively market a combination of broad- band and wireless, which already has had some success, but that could de- press revenue growth this year. In- deed, Wall Street analysts see no growth in revenue or earnings per share this year. That outlook, however, appears discounted in the company’s stock, with Wall Street fearing a steady bleed of broadband subscribers this year. Moffett remains bullish, arguing that broadband losses “likely have peaked.” He wrote that the stock “looks cheap” valued at 10 times this year’s projected free cash flow and five times estimated 2028 free cash flow. “Comcast needs to copy Charter’s strategy by marketing cable’s key ad- vantage far more aggressively—a con- verged wireline/wireless bundle that cannot be offered in most cases by their competitors,” says Jeff Wlodarc- zak, a Pivotal Research Group analyst. He says it may take some time for the company to demonstrate success with the strategy. In terms of its other businesses, Comcast highlighted that Peacock operating losses were cut by more than 50%, to $372 million, in the fourth quarter. But Supino noted that the service has lost a cumulative $9 billion, “with no articulated path to profitability.” It serves just 36 million subscribers against 300 million-plus for Netflix. Comcast hasn’t said when it expects Peacock to turn a profit. The Universal theme parks are un- derappreciated assets—especially the one in Orlando, Fla., which will be better able to compete with Disney World with the opening of the Epic Universe in the spring at an estimated cost of $6 billion to $7 billion. The Universal parks generated Ebitda of $3 billion in 2024 and could be worth $40 billion or more. One final area of potential upside is the tantalizing prospect of a merger of Comcast and Charter. Media mogul and influential Char- ter investor John Malone said at Lib- erty Media’s investor day in Novem- ber that it’s time to allow such a once- unthinkable combination, given growing competition from telecom companies and others in broadband that have depressed cable stocks in recent years. One benefit of the addition-by-sub- traction cable spinoff would be jetti- soning President Donald Trump-un- friendly MSNBC from Comcast. That could make Trump antitrust regula- tors more willing to approve a poten- tial Comcast/Charter deal. The com- panies have little overlap of their cable and broadband footprints. Comcast is a rare big company with an inexpensive stock, ample capital returns, and what Wall Street calls optionality, or several ways to win. Its investors should be in for a sat- isfying ride. Bl eproductions not permitted. oO not eait or alter. -commercial use only. 14 February 24, 2025 Energy Under ‘Trump: Winners And Losers The president's energy agendais already playing out in surprising ways. Werankthe most promisinginvestments now. e BY AVI SALZMAN nergy has taken cen- ter stage in the first month of President Donald Trump’s sec- ond term. It’s the linchpin of his plan to tame inflation, be- cause oil drilling can drive down prices at the pump. And Trump sees oil and gas as America’s most power- ful asset in trade negotiations. The U.S. has an abundance of those re- sources, and some of its biggest rivals, like China, don’t. “We're going to make more money than anybody’s ever made with en- ergy,” Trump said in the Oval Office earlier this month. It’s less certain that energy inves- tors will be rolling in dough too. Trump’s early moves in energy have been dramatic and controver- sial—and haven’t been great for stocks. Some, like his decision to halt already-approved payments on energy loans and grants, quickly landed in court. Others, like his tariffs on Cana- dian and Mexican energy and other products, have unsettled American companies and upset allies. Those tariffs are on hold until early March. But the fallout, and the possibility that Trump will remove sanctions on Rus- sian oil, have knocked oil prices and stocks lower. The Energy Select Sec- tor SPDR exchange-traded fund, which mostly reflects shares of large oil producers, is down 1.2% since the day before his inauguration, and up 3.8% since he won the election, versus the S&P 500 index’s 5.8% gain. Some of the best opportunities in energy align with Trump’s interests, but they tend to be in areas that have demand drivers beyond federal policy. As things stand today, natural gas looks best positioned among energy segments, followed by, in order, nu- clear power, oil, solar, and wind. The centerpiece of Trump’s plan has been to declare an energy emer- gency, which he says gives his adminis- tration broad powers to do things like approve pipelines and power plants without going through the usual regu- latory hoops. Trump describes the state of American energy in dire terms, calling it “dangerous” and “precari- ously inadequate.” But there’s ample evidence to the contrary. U.S. oil pro- duction is at record highs, and the country produces so much natural gas that suppliers had to curtail pro- duction last year to avoid an all-out crash. Even with those production cuts, natural-gas prices fell to their lowest inflation-adjusted levels ever. “There’s not an emergency, as an objective matter,” says Ari Peskoe, director of the electricity law initiative at the Harvard Law School Environ- mental and Energy Law Program. If the U.S. were really in an emergency situation, Trump wouldn’t have also curbed permits for new renewable- energy resources and made it easier for oil and gas producers to send U.S. resources overseas, he says. Peskoe adds that it’s “not at all clear” which special powers Trump’s emergency order will give him. Any attempt to bypass normal permitting will proba- bly end up in court. If Trump loses there, it could markedly slow some of his plans. Another problem with his orders is what they leave out. In defining en- ergy sources subject to his emergency declaration, Trump listed every major source of electricity and combustion in the country except three: wind, batteries, and solar. But renewables are the fastest-growing electricity sources in the country, accounting for more than half of new generation. A recent Dallas Federal Reserve report said that solar and battery power “saved the Texas grid last summer.” Solar output in Texas rose more than 40% in the brutally hot summer of February 24, 2025 BARRON’S 15 2024 from 2023 levels, and battery storage nearly tripled. Even though power loads hit a record in August, state regulators didn’t have to ask con- sumers to cut back their electricity use even once, after having to do so 11 times in 2023. To expand on that success, renew- ables could use help from the federal government in areas like speeding the rollout of new electricity transmis- sion lines—one factor holding back deployment of renewables today. But the Trump administration’s early moves don’t point to much help for renewables. Asked why wind and solar didn’t make the list of important energy sources, a White House official wrote z that Trump will support “any energy 6 infrastructure projects that increase & our energy supply and security, 5 whether it’s the Keystone XL Pipeline £ or a similar project, because a reliable @ energy supply is essential to our Images (1) The prospects for sg wind energy, left, being. are dim. Some When it comes to energy, Trump is _ nuclear stocks economy, national security, and well- could keep rising. Oil stocks are off to a weak start, even though oil is a top priority for Trump. clearly focused on expanding fossil- fuel development and transportation. As evidenced by the past month’s drop in oil stock prices, choosing win- ners won't be as easy as picking his favorite industries. Natural Gas Natural gas has long played second fiddle to oil. Historically, its price was even pegged to crude prices. But it’s now taking on a more central role in USS. energy policy, and the stocks of producers and exporters have bene- fited handsomely. The industry has two major growth drivers in the years ahead: growing exports of liquefied natural gas, or LNG, to Europe and Asia, and rising electricity demand from artificial- intelligence data centers and indus- trial uses. Together, those industries are likely to boost natural-gas demand 10% to 20% by 2030. An end to sanc- tions on Russian gas could dent that growth but not derail the investment thesis. LNG faced some uncertainty last year after President Joe Biden paused approvals of new LNG export termi- nals to study their environmental and economic impacts. Enough terminals had already been approved to ensure that the industry’s capacity would double by 2028, but the industry’s fate after that was up in the air. Trump quickly reversed the pause, and an- nounced his administration’s first new LNG permit approval earlier this month for a project that could go into service in 2029. Exporting LNG is a lucrative busi- ness. The stock of industry leader Cheniere Energy doubled in the past three years. But the field is getting more competitive, and analysts see a glut of LNG emerging by 2027. Those challenging economics may be one reason that Venture Global, another top LNG firm, has seen its stock fall 30% since going public in January. Some think natural-gas producers can benefit as Trump opens up more LNG exports. Doug Rachlin, portfolio manager at Neuberger Berman, says he likes Antero Resources because it’s positioned to sell 75% of its gas into the LNG market. While the stock rose some 50% in the past year, it still trades at a reasonable 13.3 times ex- pected 2025 earnings. The companies providing equip- ment for new LNG plants are also well positioned to benefit. That includes Chart Industries, a Georgia company that makes equipment like cryogenic tanks and modular liquefaction plants. Chart just signed a multiproj- ect deal with Exxon Mobil, one of the top global names in LNG. Analysts expect Chart’s earnings to jump 36% this year. “We think it deserves a re- valuation,” says Rob Uek, a portfolio manager at Essex Global Environmen- tal Opportunities Strategy, which owns Chart stock. Chart trades at 15.5 times its expected earnings, but Uek thinks it will eventually fetch a multi- ple of at least 20 times, more like other high-growth industrial companies. That would take the stock to $240 from a recent $195. Nuclear Nuclear power also came into 2025 with enormous momentum. In 2024, the industry woke up suddenly from a decadelong slumber. Tech and indus- Powering Up These stocks have room to run, even after big gains. Company / Recent 12-Month Market Ticker Price Change Value (billion) 2025E P/E Antero Resources / AR $39.51 53.8% $12.6 13.3 Cameco/CCJ 46.54 13.4 20.3 42.3 Chart Industries / GTLS 191.30 51.8 8.4 16.5 First Solar / FSLR 164.09 13.4 17.4 7.9 Sources: Barron’s, FactSet 16 BARRON’S February 24, 2025 trial companies turned to upstart nu- clear developers for clean, reliable power for facilities like AI data cen- ters. Microsoft even agreed to buy nuclear power from a shuttered Three Mile Island reactor in Pennsylvania, at what analysts said was a major pre- mium to market electricity prices. The Trump administration appears to be pro-nuclear. Trump has included the technology in his energy executive orders, and appointed nuclear advo- cate Chris Wright as secretary of en- ergy. Wright served on the board of nuclear company Oklo, and has listed “commercialization of afford- able and abundant nuclear energy” as one of his department’s top priorities. Enthusiasm about the industry con- tinues to grow, as do valuations of the stocks. Attendance was up 50% at the Nuclear Energy Institute’s annual finance summit in New York earlier this month. The Biden administration was also pro-nuclear, offering loans and grants to several projects—including the re- start of a shuttered Michigan nuclear plant. Biden’s Inflation Reduction Act was generous to the industry, using tax credits to help establish a baseline price for nuclear-power generation and ensure that no current plants re- tire early. The industry has a few requests for Trump. They want him to keep the tax credits Biden introduced, and they hope that low-rate loans will remain available. Their other request is to get the federal government more directly in- volved in funding new nuclear plants, by agreeing to cover cost overruns when they get built. The last big U.S. nuclear plant expansion came in more than $15 billion over budget. “We have to have federal dollars,” said Caroline Golin, Google’s global head of energy market development and innovation, at the Nuclear Energy Institute confer- ence. Google, part of Alphabet, has lately been investing in nuclear plants, agreeing to buy electricity from pri- vate reactor developer Kairos Power in the future. Investors in nuclear stocks profited handsomely last year, but it could be hard to match those gains in 2025. The start-up nuclear stocks look ex- tremely pricey, particularly given that none has built commercial plants yet. Oklo and Nuscale Power, which make next-generation reactors, were up 300% and 680%, respectively, in the past year. The more promising stocks today are providers of fuel for nuclear plants, says Arthur Hyde, portfolio manager at Segra Capital, a hedge fund that invests in nuclear compa- nies. That includes Cameco, a Cana- dian company that mines uranium in Canada and the U.S. and owns a stake in nuclear-reactor designer Westing- house. He also likes smaller uranium miners, including Uranium Energy and enCore Energy. Hyde, whose firm also funds private companies, thinks that public-market investors could get more options soon. “I expect additional go-public activity across the nuclear technology space in the next 12 months,” he says. Oil The Biden administration put few lasting restrictions on the oil industry but often criticized the companies for their policies on share buybacks and the environment. Oil company execu- tives appreciate the change in rhetoric around fossil fuels now. Trump “rec- ognized that oil and gas has been dis- favored in recent years, and I think his intent is to make sure that the country takes advantage of all the energy sources that it’s blessed with, includ- ing oil and gas,” said Chevron CEO Mike Wirth in an interview with Bar- ron’s. Trump plans to ease environ- mental restrictions and open up more federal land to drilling, including in Alaska—though recent lease sales there have drawn few, if any, bidders. The outlook is shaky for oil stocks today. Trump wants U.S. oil compa- nies to drill more to force gasoline prices down. But lower prices will quickly discourage plans for new proj- ects. Instead, oil companies are slow- ing their production growth in the face of tepid demand and hesitancy from investors. What’s more, there’s an iceberg ahead. The Organization of the Petro- leum Exporting Countries and its al- lies, including Russia, have been hold- ing more than six million barrels of oil a day off the market, and have said they'll start bringing it back later this year. Even if they don’t, the mere threat of a flood of supply should hold the stocks back. Historically, oil stocks have almost always trailed the broader market when that much spare produc- tion capacity is being held back. Renewables Solar and wind power face a treacher- ous road ahead because of Trump and Going Nuclear Nuclear stocks soared over the past year, thanks to demand from Al. Other energy areas struggled. Range Nuclear Renaissance SPDR S&P Oil & Gas Exploration First Trust Global Wind Index ETF & Production ETF Invesco Solar ETF Energy ETF $54 $180 $51 $21 44 160 44 18 34 140 37 15 rn 24 120 30 12 Feb. ‘24 Feb. ‘25 Feb. ‘24 Feb. ‘25 Feb. ‘24 Feb. ‘25 Feb. ‘24 Feb. ‘25 Source: FactSet a Republican-controlled Congress that is looking to cut climate-related fund- ing. Congress is working on bills that could eliminate the tax credits that have sustained the industry in recent years. Biden’s Inflation Reduction Act offers renewable projects 30% tax credits related to the value of a project or the energy it produces, and the op- portunity for more credits. A complete withdrawal of those credits would cause a steep downturn in renewables stocks, most of which have already been falling steadily. Morgan Stanley analyst Andrew Percoco doesn’t ex- pect a wholesale repeal, but thinks that some tax credits could be axed or end well before their 2032 sunset date. There’s reason for hope, however, say industry CEOs and bankers. For one thing, renewables did OK during Trump’s first term and struggled dur- ing the Biden years, even though they got more support; their problems had more to do with interest rates. Companies making investments in renewables have to look at time hori- zons that span multiple presidential administrations. “The projects pay back over a much longer period,” says PJ Deschenes, co-head of Nomura Greentech, which helps finance sus- tainable energy transactions. In fact, some savvy buyers think that the stocks have gotten way too cheap. Brookfield Asset Manage- ment, one of the world’s largest re- newables developers, is considering buying beaten-down public companies that it could take private, says Jehangir Vevaina, global chief investment offi- cer of Brookfield’s renewable power and transition group. “We follow the sector closely, and we do see opportu- nities out there,” he says. “Given valu- ations, we would absolutely look at it, consider it, and do it.” Solar energy looks best positioned to keep growing in the Trump years. Industry executives think the presi- dent’s early actions are evidence of benign neglect. While changes to the Inflation Reduction Act would hurt solar equipment companies, Trump’s domestic manufacturing agenda could lift them. Domestic solar factories can now produce enough modules to nearly meet all domestic demand, though the precursor materials that go into modules are still largely sourced from Asia. America’s leading manu- facturer, First Solar, is down 25% since the election, and trades at just 7.9 times its expected 2025 earnings. Even if tax credits go away, First Solar should benefit from high tariffs on foreign solar panels, says Maheep Mandloi, an analyst at Mizuho Securi- ties. Mandloi thinks the shares could rise to $259 from a recent $164. Wind power is in more precarious shape. Offshore wind, an industry that had just started to take off in the U.S. under Biden, is facing significant challenges. Trump has paused new offshore wind permits and even di- rected his administration to review older approvals, with the possibility they could be clawed back. Onshore wind, which needs fewer federal per- mits, could still persevere. Installa- tions are on track to increase 31% this year, according to Bloomberg NEF. And market expectations are as low as ever; Vestas Wind Systems, the world’s leading turbine maker, is trad- ing around where it did at the depths of the Covid-19 pandemic, despite end- ing 2024 with its largest backlog ever. Citi analyst Martin Wilkie thinks the stock can more than double. At the right price, even wind power attracts bullish investors. It’s another sign that surprises could abound in energy investing for the next four years. Bl February 24, 2025 17
