METADATA:
Source: Barrons
Date: 2025-02-24
Categories: Stocks, Inflation
Title: BY RESHMA KAPADIA ndrea Auerbach launched her career in private-mar- ket investing in the early 1...
ID: 12

CONTENT:
BY RESHMA KAPADIA ndrea Auerbach launched her career in private-mar- ket investing in the early 1990s, when the business was largely synonymous with leveraged buyouts. Today it encompasses ven- ture capital, private equity, private credit, and much more. Interest in so-called alternative assets likewise has exploded: Assets under manage- ment are on track to hit $15 trillion this year, up from $10 trillion in 2021. Auerbach, global head of private investments at Cambridge Associates, helps clients such as family offices, small charitable organizations, hospi- tals, universities, and sovereign- wealth funds source, underwrite, and ultimately invest about $12 billion in private markets. She has had a ring- side seat to the industry’s expansion, including its more recent struggles as interest rates have risen. Many managers of private assets are now looking to grow by tapping retail investors, including through A4O1(k) assets. Barron’s spoke with Auerbach in early February about the appeal of private markets, the outlook for fund raising and deal activity, and the implications of the “democratiza- tion” of alternatives. An edited version of the discussion follows. Barron’s: Why are private-market investments attracting so much attention—and so many dollars? Andrea Auerbach: It comes down to the returns. On a 15-year basis, as of Sept. 30, private markets returned an average annual 15% net of fees, versus 10% for the MSCI All-Country World Index. Public equity markets have become highly concentrated in technology stocks. We have seen this before, with mining and railroads once dominating the public markets. The growth of passive investing also complicates things: If you are investing passively in an index, how are you going to out- perform? If investors want to outper- form the market, they need to invest in other strategies that differ from the public markets. But there are certain things private- market investors have to accept. Pri- vate investments are illiquid, your money may be tied up for a while, and you may not be able to access informa- tion about your investments. Private-equity funds had a couple of years of muted returns and fund-raising difficulties as interest rates rose. What happened? The amount of capital invested in 2021 was almost twice the long-term an- nual average when interest rates were held near zero. Markets were risk-on. Equity valuations rose; the meme stock phenomenon was born. People were investing as though the party wasn’t going to end. The general part- ners [in private-equity funds] took on Photograph by NATE PALMER “Private markets still offer investors the ability to diversify and add a different source of exposure that they hadn’t previously been able to access.” leverage assuming a certain interest rate, and paid a certain price for assets assuming rates would stay low. Then inflation appeared and inter- est rates rose, throwing a spanner in the works. If a fund wants to sell an asset for a gain, it needs to hold it for longer and do more to enhance its value. Exits from private-equity invest- ments [through initial public offerings, mergers, or other actions that produce proceeds] came to a halt as the Federal Reserve raised rates in March 2022. PE firms use leverage in varying degrees to acquire companies, and that leverage became more expensive as rates rose. Typically, [PE firms] raise a fund and start investing that capital, and then show some exits and positive [return] momentum so they can come back to investors and raise another fund. But when rates rose, they couldn’t sell anything. The com- panies they had invested in were busy combating inflation and higher inter- est-rate costs, and weren't progressing well. Everything slowed down. Distri- butions [to investors], fund raising, and transactions have all been down. What is the outlook for this year? We expect more exits this year. Pri- vate-equity funds have a time limit; they can’t hold the assets forever. The legal term limit is 10 years plus two one-year extensions, and then we have to talk. The investment period is typi- cally five years—during that time, a manager can charge a management fee for committed capital. After that in- vestment period expires, the manage- ment fee is only paid on invested capi- tal, so it drops if the money hasn’t been put to work. Think about the 2021 vintage year [funds created that year]. They are in year five. If the general partners want to raise their next funds, they need to distribute some cash to current inves- tors. These investors are going to ask: What have you done for us? Show us the return. That is a motivating factor for exits. Also, the businesses in which these funds invested have become more bat- tle-tested. They have healed their sup- ply chains and persevered through an inflationary period, potentially making them more attractive deal candidates. Lastly, there is a lot of capital still sitting in larger funds that needs to be put to work. That will mean more activity, with smaller companies owned by private equity sold to larger companies. And we will see more private-equity funds taking public companies private. Are you expecting a boom in merg- ers and acquisitions? We expect to see a boost in M&A ac- tivity this year relative to last year, with the software and business-ser- vices sectors leading the way. More M&A activity means more companies are sold, and that means more distri- butions to investors. Institutional investors tend to be patient with payouts, but how is the dearth of distributions impact- ing the private-equity industry? There is a heightened sense of urgency on the general-partner side to demon- strate that private-equity firms are doing what they were hired to do. The business model of private equity is predicated on always raising another fund. You assume you can raise some money and plan on generating man- agement fees and carried interest [a portion of a fund’s profits paid to the fund manager]. If that possibility goes away, your organization is at risk. How does your team evaluate these situations? We want to understand the operating performance of a fund’s current hold- ings. We also want to understand the fund manager’s exit views, including whether the fund is trying to sell these investments. Given the industry’s current diffi- culties, some investors have turned to the secondary market to sell their stakes in PE funds. That mar- ket has now grown to $152 billion, according to Lazard. How do you view this trend? Some of our clients don’t need cash immediately, so they are patient. But some—like pension managers facing a wave of pensioner retirements, or hos- pitals or families that want to be more philanthropic—may need the money sooner. The secondary market offers a way for institutional investors to get liquidity by putting their stakes in PE funds up for sale. Last year saw the largest number of first-timers bring- ing secondaries to sell. Private credit, or nonbank lending, has become a $2 trillion business. What is the outlook, given the in- terest-rate backdrop? Some of the families I work with are investing in private credit instead of what used to be called the hedge fund allocation as returns for private credit look more interesting now that rates have risen. If you can make a competi- tive return through senior lending, investing in the senior-most part of the capital structure, that is likely a better adjusted return than an equity strategy in a hedge fund. There is a lot of dry powder in pri- vate credit. Spreads have tightened [between private credit and Treasury yields] given the amount of capital available, and the amount of leverage, which has gone up. Private credit con- tinues to deliver good returns. Investors are also diversifying within the private- credit bucket. They are investing not just in senior lending but also in spe- cialty finance and other forms of credit. There is a push on Wall Street to democratize private-market invest- ing and offer individual investors more access. Do you expect this effort to be successful? The industry is actively courting retail investors, and there has been a signifi- cant increase in the number of solu- tions that firms are bringing to market for individuals. I expect the push to be successful. The nature of vehicles available to individuals is a bit different from the traditional structure for institutional investors, who commit capital to a fund that will call it when needed. In the case of a semiliquid fund aimed at the retail market, an investor puts up all the money upfront, and the fund then invests it quickly in things that can deliver private-equity-like returns. Some of the money goes into private markets, but some has to be managed for liquidity. Should retail investors expect more-muted returns than institu- tional investors? Managers successful in bringing retail investors onto their platforms are now responsible for investing substantial capital, which can make it harder to earn competitive returns. Some of the retail solutions in the market are buying secondaries because they have to get that money invested quickly. That creates pricing pressure in the secondary market, such that you probably want to sell secondaries and be careful if you want to buy. But pri- vate markets still offer investors the ability to diversify and add a different source of exposure that they hadn’t previously been able to access. What does the potential avalanche of retail money coming into private markets mean for institutional investors? It could negatively impact returns. Thinking through any necessary ad- justments to our investment ap- proach is top of mind. One thing we talk about with our institutional cli- ents is, how do you invest success- fully in a way that isn’t in front of a steamroller [created by retail-ori- ented strategies]. We are advising clients to stay clear of those managers and platforms [that target retail in- vestors]. You want to be where the crowd isn’t. What industry sectors are getting a lot of attention in private markets? In private equity, enterprise software has become the No. 1 investment sec- tor. More broadly, technology, indus- trial/multisector, and healthcare have been the three big investment areas for a while. In 2023-24, software went through a recession; year-over-year revenue growth flattened. Industrials, too, hit an air pocket due to issues with supply chains, labor, raw mate- rial inputs, and over-inventorying at customers. We are watching these sectors improve, and expect this year to be productive. Thanks, Andrea. 8 BARRON’S Tuesday
