METADATA:
Source: Economist
Date: 2025-02-25
Categories: Inflation, Commodities
Title: SOUTH SUDAN 400 km | \ Sudan, areas of control, February 19th 2025 MSAF W&RSF Source: | homas van...
ID: 174

CONTENT:
SOUTH SUDAN 400 km | \ Sudan, areas of control, February 19th 2025 MSAF W&RSF Source: | homas van Linge Militias and rebel groups > morale and sown disunity. “The old RSF is disintegrating,” says Amjed Farid, an off- cial in the interim civilian government that was ousted in a coup led by General Bur- han in 2021. “Instead of being one militia it is becoming an alliance of gangs.” It is also increasingly isolated diplomat- ically. In January America slapped sanc- tions on Mr Dagalo and seven companies owned by the RSF in the UAE. [hough Gen- eral Burhan was also sanctioned a week lat- er, some Western diplomats are cautiously optimistic the UAE may be rethinking its support for such a toxic group. On Febru- ary 14th it called for a ceasefire and pledged to send an additional $200m in humanitarian aid. “We need stability and we need a civilian government, insists a senior Emirati official. Given the RSF’s setbacks in Khartoum and an unpredictable Donald [rump inthe White House, the UAE may try to wind down its support. But so far there is little to suggest the UAE has yet done so. Clandes- tine arms shipments, including drones, are still flowing to the RSF in Darfur, says Na- thaniel Raymond of Yale’s Humanitarian Research Lab, a conflict monitor. These weapons are believed to come largely from the UAE. Though RSF fighters are aban- doning their posts in Khartoum, many have redeployed to el-Fasher, Darfur’s cap- ital. In recent days a nearby camp hosting some im refugees, many fleeing from el- Fasher itself, has been raided and shelled by the RSF and allied militias, raising the prospect of another bloodbath in Darfur. There is little sign the RSF plans to sue for peace. It is set to announce the forma- tion of a civilian government to rival Gen- eral Burhan’s putative one in Khartoum. This could entrench the division of Sudan into multiple zones. Nor does Mr Dagalo appear to have ceded his ambition to rule in Khartoum. According to a Western se- curity analyst in contact with the RSF, the group is preparing a counter-offensive. & War in eastern Congo Advantage Rwanda KINSHASA The Congolese state has lost control of the east of the country ULERS OF THE Democratic Republic Ror Congo have rarely, if ever, fully con- trolled the east of Africa’s second-largest country. Kinshasa, its capital, is 1,;00km from the provinces (South Kivu, North Ki- vu and Ituri) that border the other Great Lakes countries (Burundi, Rwanda and Uganda). The advance of M23, a Rwandan- backed rebel group, starkly reveals the Congolese state’s weakness. The region may be in fora third instalment of the wars that have blighted it since the 1990s. On February 16th soldiers from M23 marched single-file through the streets of Bukavu, eastern Congo's second-largest ci- ty. [he beleaguered remains of the Congo- lese army had retreated without a fight. Re- bel fighters toting grenade-launchers and machine-guns took triumphant selfies in the city’s main square. The capture of Bukavu, South Kivu’s capital, came three weeks after M23 took Goma, its counterpart in North Kivu and the east’s largest city, with the help of Rwandan troops. The unilateral ceasefire the group declared amid African and Western condemnation of its seizure of Goma lasted about as long as it takes to re- load a machine-gun. Soon M23 was on the march through South Kivu, supported by Rwanda’s Jurkish-made Bayraktar TB2 drones, according to Western officials. Rwanda, which has a territory 1/g9oth of Congo’s, now in effect controls all of Lake Kivu. Congo’s army has pulled out of the strategic airport of Kavumu, near Bukavu, alongside thousands of troops from its main ally in the region, Burundi. The loss of this airport is an enormous blow, as it cuts off the Congolese army’s supply route. “Soldiers are leaving on foot, the of- ficers are leaving by boat,” said a Bukavu- based researcher, who declined to give his name for safety reasons. “There’s no more military logistics, no more resupply.’ In Kinshasa the mood is grim. Interna- tional sanctions on Rwanda, long a Congo- lese demand, have not materialised. Re- cent summits of African leaders on eastern Congo have had no impact on the ground. Felix Ishisekedi, Congo’s president, has not addressed the nation since January 29th, when he vowed that a “vigorous and co-ordinated response” was under way. Western embassies in Kinshasa, including those of America and Britain, have evacu- ated most of their staff, tearing that the sit- uation in the capital may deteriorate. Middle East & Africa 39 As if Mr Tshisekedi needed further re- minding of his army’s weakness, on Febru- ary 18th Ugandan troops were said to be in Bunia, the capital of Ituri. It is unclear if the Ugandans are there as friends or foes. In 2021 Mr Ishisekedi authorised Ugandan soldiers to enter Congo to help root out ji- hadists. But in the days before Ugandan troops entered Bunia the head of Uganda’s army, General Muhoozi Kainerugaba, posted on social media that he planned to attack the city. Mr Kainerugaba, who is the son of Yoweri Museveni, Uganda’s presi- dent, is notorious for buffoonery. He once threatened to conquer Rome if Giorgia Meloni, now Italy’s prime minister, refused his bride price of 100 prize cows. But Western officials are taking seri- ously the notion that Uganda may exploit Congo’s weakness. With M23 and Rwanda consolidating control over eastern Congo, the thinking goes, Uganda may move in to protect its own interests. This suggests the region could be in fora replay of the sec- ond Congo war of 1998-2003. Back then, Rwanda and Uganda sent their armies into Congo to vie for influence, with devastat- ing effects on Congolese civilians. One Bunia resident says the armed eToups around the city are “on maximum alert, waiting for when the provocations start”. He adds: “We hope for calm, that’s our wish.” He is unlikely to get it. & America’s allies in the Middle East Linchpins no longer: RIYADH Egypt and Jordan are struggling to make themselves useful to Donald Trump Tie FIRST time was an honour. King Abdullah of Jordan was the first Arab leader invited to meet Donald ‘Trump at the White House in 2017. The president hailed him as a “great warrior” and prom- ised him more aid. [here was rather less bonhomie the second time around. The king sat uncomfortably on February 11th while Mr Irump talked of his plan to expel 2m Gazans to Egypt and Jordan and made a veiled threat to cut America’s roughly $1.5bn in annual aid to the kingdom. For decades, American officials de- scribed the rulers of Egypt and Jordan as linchpins of regional stability. They made peace with Israel (in 1979 and 1994, respec- tively). They mostly avoided wars, coups and revolutions. They kept their countries stable when their neighbours tipped into chaos. Even an earlier version of Mr Trump admired them: in 2019 he reportedly called Abdel-Fattah al-Sisi, the Egyptian presi- dent, “my favourite dictator”. >> > 40 Middle East & Africa Pai — , — F | — . > The abrupt U-turn is partly due to the style of Mr Trump—a transactional presi- dent who loves to pressure allies. When he says he will inflict tariffs on Canada, the latter can deploy incentives and threats to get him to back down. Egypt and Jordan have little such leverage. Bilateral trade is a paltry $9bn a year with Egypt and $s5bn with Jordan. They are too poor to offer in- vestment, too bereft of resources to help lower energy prices. Their role through 16 months of regional war has been largely to stand on the sidelines, yelling “Stop!” The relationships are not entirely hol- low. Egypt gives American warships pref- erential treatment when they need to tran- sit the Suez canal. Jordan joined the Amer- ican-led coalition that fought Islamic State. But mostly what they offer America is the promise that things would be worse without them: Apres nous, le deluge. Contrast that with Saudi Arabia. Like Egypt and Jordan, the kingdom finds itself saying no to Mr Irump. It was quick to de- nounce his talk of a Gaza riviera. Muham- mad bin Salman, the crown prince, is no longer in a hurry to normalise ties with Is- rael, which might deny Mr ‘Trump one of his most sought-after achievements (and perhaps the Nobel peace prize he covets). Yet the Saudis have found ways to soft- en the blow. [hey are trying to help Amer- ica with other aspects of its foreign policy, mediating its talks with Russia this month and maybe, in the future, with Iran. Last month Prince Muhammad offered Mr Trump $60obn in investment and trade ov- er four years. The figure is fanciful: it is more money than the Saudi sovereign- wealth fund has invested abroad. But it emphasises the kingdom’s very real finan- cial heft. Egypt and Jordan are scrambling to find their own value. They are working with wealthy Gulf states to draft a plan for post-war reconstruction and governance in Gaza. It should be presented at Arab sum- A mits in Riyadh and Cairo over the next few weeks (although diplomats in the Saudi capital caution they may be delayed). Drafting a plan is the easy part, though. Implementing it is hard. Binyamin Netan- yahu, the Israeli prime minister, has repeat- edly postponed talks with Hamas on the second phase of the Gaza ceasefire, which would bring a permanent end to the war. On February 18th he decided that the heads of the Shin Bet and the Mossad, the domestic and foreign-security services, would not attend future talks. Many Israe- lis saw this as another ploy to sabotage the negotiations, as Mr Netanyahu has done for months. There will be no need for a post-war plan if the war resumes. Because he represents such a rupture, Mr Trump has a way of obfuscating longer- term trends in American policy: his chaos can make the secular appear cyclical. It is worth remembering, then, that he was not the first American official to suggest shov- ing Gazans into Egypt. Antony Blinken, Joe Biden’s secretary of state, proposed something similar in the early weeks of the Gaza war, even though some diplomats warned it would be destabilising for Egypt. After the Arab spring in 2011, a series of uprisings that eventually toppled five dic- tators (including Egypt's), there was a de- bate in Washington about the merits of support for sclerotic regimes. But the de- bate stalled as revolutions morphed into civil wars: strongmen came back into fash- ion. A related critique has emerged since the October 7th massacre in Israel. It ar- gues that America’s obsession with stabil- ity let problems fester: Iranian-backed mi- litias grew powerful; Gaza seethed under an Israeli and Egyptian blockade. The status quo has now been upended. That suggests a deeper change in Ameri- can policy, one that will outlast Mr Trump. Arab states will have to adjust to a new re- ality in which being a force for inertia is no longer seen as a merit. Mf The Economist February 22nd 2025 Syria's next steps Inching forward BEIRUT Syrians warily watch their new leader LMOST THREE months have passed since the toppling of Bashar al- Assad’s decaying regime in Syria, and a raft of self-imposed deadlines now loom over the country’s new rulers. Ahmed al-Sharaa, the jihadist-turned- president, has promised to share pow- er, lay out a road map for Syria’s future and include minorities in his govern- ment. Now he must start delivering. Last week his officials announced a seven-person “preparatory” committee, charged with planning a national con- ference where a new constitution will be discussed. Critics say it is domin- ated by Islamists and note that Syria’s Kurds, Alawites and Druze are not represented. A figure from the new administration claims that all Syrian minorities will be included in the na- tional conference. It is too soon to be disgruntled, he insists. There are reasons for optimism. The committee includes Hind Kabawat, a Christian professor of interfaith peace- building who has lived in Canada, and Houda Attasi, who founded a humani- tarian organisation that helps women and minorities. If their voices are lis- tened to, the convention may be more inclusive than many have feared. But in Damascus constitutional declarations feel like a distraction from daily hardships. The economy is dire. sanctions are still biting, perhaps more than at any time in the past decade. Security outside the capital is shaky, as some turn to robbery and ransom. Sanctions relief is vital. And Mr Sharaa and his government know that the only way sanctions will be eased is if out- siders believe their promises to create a broadly based government. National politics may feel far re- moved from the reality of most Syrians’ lives. But if things are to improve, the starting point is politics. It is still too early to judge the sincerity of Mr Sha- raa’s declared promise of a Syria for all. In March he will name a transitional government. Along with the new com- mittee’s progress, this will offer the clearest sign of the direction in which he is taking the country—and whether international support, plus sanctions relief, will materialise. Syria’s battered people are holding their breath. The Economist February 22ndq 2025 At Putin the poker player How Vladimir Putin plans to play Donald Trump UDGED BY THE din of Russian propa- ganda and the despair among Euro- peans, Vladimir Putin has never been clos- er to winning his war on Ukraine. Yet three years after his invasion started on February 24th, 2022, it is not clear what “winning” means. His goals are elusive. His “special military operation’ was planned in secret. His government was kept in the dark, as were the Russian people. Mr Putin talks of defending Russian sovereignty, but what happens next depends on factors outside his control: politics in Ukraine, Europe’s rearmament effort and, above all, on Do- nald Irump. lalks with the Trump admin- istration began on February 18th in Saudi Arabia (see International section). Mr Irump wants to end a “ridiculous” war, but he has no plan. In theory his op- tions range from cutting off Ukraine's arms supplies to giving it back nuclear weapons. But it is easier to exert pressure on Ukraine than on Russia, so he has adopted the Kremlin’s talking-points. This week he blamed Volodymyr Zelensky, Ukraine’s president, for starting the war and denounced him as “a dictator”. Mr Pu- tin has long wanted to get rid of Mr Zelen- sky; so now so does Mr [rump. These open-ended talks suit Mr Putin just fine. Whereas Mr Trump views them as a way to end a war, Mr Putin sees them as a stage in a larger conflict. The Russian leader calculates he has more staying pow- er than Ukraine or NATO. Like a poker player, Mr Putin excels in projecting confi- dence and strength. In reality, his cards are not as strong as he would like his oppo- 43 Glum but defiant Ukraine 44 Germany goes to the polls 45 Charlemagne: Surviving MAGA nents to believe, while an end to the war could create complications for him at home. He needs Mr Irump’s help. Any assessment of Russia’s negotiating position should start with the military situ- ation. Its army has performed dismally. The pace of advance is excruciatingly slow: since last July it has struggled to take the town of Pokrovsk, where current Rus- sian losses are staggering. Most of its gains were in the first weeks of the war. In April 2022, following Russia’s retreat from the north of Ukraine, it controlled 19.6% of Ukrainian territory; its casualties (dead and wounded) were perhaps 20,000. Today Russia occupies 19.2% and its casualties are 800,000, reckon British sources. A Western official says “the two armies are fighting each other because they can’t stop, not because they are really hoping to achieve a decisive victory.’ The attrition of equipment is jaw-drop- ping. Consider Russia’s stock of Soviet-era armour, built up over decades. More than half of the 7,300 tanks it had in storage are gone. Of those that remain, only 500 can be reconditioned quickly. By April Russia may run out of its T-80 tanks. Last year it lost twice as many artillery systems as in the preceding two years. Recruiting con- tract soldiers is getting more expensive. A general mobilisation would be politically risky. Public-opinion surveys clearly show 42 Europe that Russians want the war to end. Russia’s economy has withstood the blow of sanctions thanks to the profession- alism of its central bank, high commodity prices and fiscal stimulus. Yet the realloca- tion of resources from productive sectors to the military complex has fuelled double- digit inflation. Interest rates are 21%. The shortage of labour is an acute problem. Figures on the economy may not be reli- able: the statistics authority constantly re- vises growth numbers, for example. But a report by the Central Bank and the Minis- try of Economy, leaked to Reuters, warns of a recession before inflation slows. Oleg Vyugin, a former deputy head of the Cen- tral Bank, says the government will soon have to choose between cutting military spending or galloping inflation. Its sover- eign-wealth fund is being drained. Accord- ing to Mikhail Zadornov, a former finance minister, its liquid assets have shrunk from 7.4% of GDP to below 2%. Exports, worth $417bn last year, are being squeezed by sanctions and lower commodity prices. In December they fell by 20%, year on year. Kirill Rogov of Re: Russia, a think-tank, ar- gues that sanctions and a gradual price de- cline in the basket of exports, including steel and agriculture, will limit Russia’s ca- pacity for aggression. Such vulnerabilities mean some in the West believe this is the worst possible time for America to be floating rapid conces- sions to the Kremlin. Even if the West can- not grant Ukraine ironclad security guar- antees, it could maintain sanctions in order to hold Russia at bay, argues Mr Rogov. Yet Mr Trump is focused on keeping his pro- mise to end the war quickly, not on con- straining and deterring Russia for years. “We are finally getting Putin into the posi- tion where we wanted him to be for three years. It would be a terrible shame if we al- low him to snatch victory from the teeth of defeat,” says an American official. Mr Putin believes Mr Irump is not just impatient, but open to manipulation, and he is playing him like a fiddle. He has courted him with flattery and instant grat- ification. On February 1th he freed Marc Fogel, an American citizen whom Russia arrested in 2021; something Joe Biden failed to do. He promises lucrative busi- ness deals. But Mr Putin's underlying de- mands are unchanged. These include a non-aligned Ukraine, whose forces should be limited in size and in terms of equip- ment, and which does not host Western troops. He wants recognition that Crimea and four newly annexed Ukrainian prov- inces are part of Russia. Most important, as Mr Putin laid out last June, “the essence of our proposal is not a temporary truce or ceasefire” that would leave sanctions in place and allow Ukraine to rearm. Instead Mr Putin wants a “definitive resolution” that would lift the Western embargo on ~ 150 km Kursk , RUSSIA - Kyiv = Ae UKRAINE q ....» Luhansk 4. \ Ukrainian provinces a ae et annexed by Russia Pokrovsk q es on Sep 30th 2022 benny x ae ais wee Controlled b Odessa” y ° Kherson Russian-backed os Seaof forces before Azov Feb 24th 2022 Black Channa Sea Ukrainian territory annexed Sevastopol : by Russia in 2014 February 19th 2025 Russian-controlled §§ Claimed Russian-controlled ~ Russian advances Sources: Institute for the Study of War; AEl’s Critical Threats Project @ Ukrainian-held Russian territory Russia and let it rebuild its army. Even if the hot war ends, Mr Putin will continue to try to cripple Europe and re- establish Russia’s sphere of influence. His goal is to break Ukraine and to dismantle the American-led post-1945 order, accord- ing to Steve Covington, an adviser to NATO’s Supreme Allied Commander Europe. As Mr Putin told his diplomats last year, “the entire system of Euro-Atlantic security is crumbling before our eyes.” Europe “is being marginalised in global economic development, plunged into cha- os...and is losing international agency and cultural identity”. He was doubtless pleased to hear J.D. Vance, America’s vice- president, echo this claim on February 15th at the Munich Security Conference. At that if Aa Bay ah Vandalism, not victory The Economist February 22nd 2025 event in 2007 Mr Putin first declared his determination to fight the West. The Kremlin no doubt hopes that pro-Russian right-wing parties, whom Mr Vance ad- mires, will gain in European elections. Gremlins for the Kremlin Mr Putin's priority is to stay in power. End- ing the war entails its own risks, including the return of hundreds of thousands of sol- diers; and a fight among different clans. Mr [rump’s diplomacy has given oxygen to moderates who had silently opposed the war. [hey lack political power, but these “beneficiaries of peace”—private business- men, economists and some technocrats— hope Mr [rump and his team can change Russia’s trajectory. Unable to confront Mr Putin, they want to persuade him that cool- ing the confrontation with the West would enhance rather than endanger his security. On the other side are the “beneficiaries of war”. If confrontation is the foundation of the Putin regime, violence and corrup- tion are its glue. Oligarchic clans benefit from quotas for exporting oil and other commodities in grey markets created by sanctions. They will not part with their lu- crative franchises lightly. The security ser- vices will also be searching for turbo-patri- ots who will see any deal as a betrayal. Mr Trump is right to want to stop the killing. If a ceasefire lets Ukraine rebuild, spurs higher European defence spending and keeps some sanctions on Russia’s creaking economy, it could also see Mr Pu- tin’s ambitions fail. Mr Putin, however, is betting that he can fight on for longer than Ukraine can, or that he can manoeuvre Mr LTrump into a deal that allows Russia to re- integrate back into the world economy, renders Ukraine a divided and semi-failing state, and leaves Europe too stunned and isolated to defend itself. & The Economist February 22nd 2025 Ukraine Three years on, the mood is glum KYIV Donald Trump wants Volodymyr Zelensky out. But he is defiantly hanging on OR THREE years Ukraine has endured what was once unthinkable: an air-and- land assault on its capital; a bloody war of attrition; missiles; drones; glide bombs; summary executions. Now a new front has opened, this time, unexpectedly, from the West. Donald Trump’s brazen overtures towards Russia have publicly blindsided Ukraine’s president, Volodymyr Zelensky, who has begun to show his anger. On Feb- ruary 18th Mr Zelensky cancelled a long- planned trip to Saudi Arabia, saying he did not want to be associated with talks being held there without him: “We were not invi- ted...It was a surprise for us, I think for many others as well.” On February i9th Mr lrump responded in kind, calling Mr Ze- lensky “a dictator’. Mr Trump’s decision to talk to Vladimir Putin and his apparent desire to rehabili- tate him have shocked Kyiv’s politicians. But few are truly surprised. “Our mental state was not good the day we heard the news,” says an MP from Mr Zelensky’s par- ty. “But we were expecting it.” It was no se- cret that Ukraine’s representatives were finding doors in Washington slammed shut. “We understood the level to which Russian narratives have taken hold in America. An opposition MP describes a sense of “foreboding” in parliament, as deputies brace for the prospect of having to vote for a humiliating ceasefire deal. Even if Ukraine emerges from war, it faces a fight for survival. People—not just politicians and soldiers—are exhausted. Hundreds of thousands are dead or wounded. Millions have emigrated. Per- haps a third of the 4.3m Ukrainians who fled to Europe are under 18, many never to return. A deal without long-term security will push more parents to send their chil- dren abroad, worsening Ukraine's already notable demographic malaise. “Peace is needed,” says a senior Ukrainian official. “We need peace. Ihe question is—a peace that doesn’t finish us off at the same time.” For all the turmoil, there is still nothing resembling a deal. But much is developing according to Ukraine’s worst-case scenar- io. Many of its elite fear the language com- ing from the Trump team echoes a Russian trap: calls for a ceasefire without security guarantees, and immediate elections that would shatter Ukrainian unity. “Mr Irump appears to want to get rid of Mr Zelensky, whom he has never liked and who he thinks is difficult,” says a former diplomat. “This is not about elections, it’s about get- ting rid of Zelensky.’ Mr Irump’s headlong approach will probably produce not so much a quick peace as an unacceptable offer to Ukraine. It will then fall to Mr Zelensky to draw the process out and, in that hiatus, negotiate. Unlike Mr Trump, Ukraine’s president has not revealed his red lines. A readiness to sit with “the killer’—Mr Putin—is compro- mise enough, he told /he Economist last week. But he has said he will not agree to a ceasefire without security guarantees, or to any deal done behind his back. The tide is against In theory, Ukraine could fight on in de- flance of a Trump deal. In practice, its hand will weaken with time. [he war is brutal for both sides, but more so for the less numerous Ukrainians. Ukraine’s army has shown great skill at the unit level. But there are serious problems at the opera- tional level and a notable absence of stra- tegic planning. Front-line brigades are run- ning out of men; some are operating with less than a third of their regular size. Mr Irump, meanwhile, has many levers to pull to enforce a solution. He can—and may well—cut or stop military aid. He might unilaterally lift sanctions on Russia. He might drop other vital support, such as real-time targeting and Starlink, the back- bone of Ukraine’s battlefield communica- : oe | = = ern : at t Pore Fi, ts No surrender Europe 43 tions. [here are workarounds, but turning those systems off would hurt Ukraine. With Europe cut out of Mr Trump’s dealmaking, much now rides on Mr Zelen- sky and his will to fight. He has good rea- son to push back against harsh demands: his job and his place in history depend on it. But standing up to an American leader who thrives on defining himself by his ene- mies will be dangerous and psychological- ly tough. Insiders worry Mr Zelensky is re- treating into a narrowing circle, just when he needs the broadest support. “There is no one who is ready to say no to him,” com- plains one, “and he is making mistakes.” Many Ukrainians are clearly frustrated with their war leader, too. Opinion polling shown to 7he Economist suggests that he would lose an election by 30% to 65% to Valery Zaluzhny, his former top general, al- beit that he has yet to enter politics. In Jan- uary a public poll showed that trust in Mr Zelensky had fallen to 52%, the lowest dur- ing the war, well below the 90% who trust- ed him at the start of the invasion, though well above the 4% suggested by Mr Trump on February 18th. If all this seems perilous, it is not the worst-case scenario. [he true Ukrainian nightmare would come from Mr Trump en- forcing the Kremlin blueprint in its entire- ty: a ceasefire without effective security guarantees; elections that result in politi- cal paralysis, a weak presidency and a frac- tious parliament; then demobilisation, mass emigration and the beginning of so- cial disintegration at home. [he unity shown by Ukrainians in the early days of the war would be a distant memory. “This is far from an impossible scenario,” admits an official. “Remember there are millions of weapons in the country. You can even buy a captured Russian tank on the front lines for 100,000 hryvnia [$2,400].” 44 Europe German politics Size matters BERLIN Germany’s election outcome will depend on how three small parties perform T HAS BEEN a dramatic few months in | Germany. November saw the collapse of the three-party coalition led by Olaf Scholz, triggering an early election that will take place on February 23rd. Then, last month, the campaign was given a jolt by the decision of Friedrich Merz, head of the opposition conservative Christian Demo- crats (CDU), to push anti-immigration mo- tions through the Bundestag with support from the hard-right Alternative for Germa- ny (AfD). For many, including hundreds of thousands that took to the streets in prot- est, Mr Merz had violated a long-standing taboo against working with extremists. Yet you would not notice it from the polls. Apart from Die Linke (“The Left”), a small left-wing outfit enjoying a last-mi- nute surge—perhaps in part because of Mr Merz’s stunt—every party sits within two percentage points of its score a year ago (see chart 1). Barring an unprecedented polling miss, the CDU and its Bavarian sis- ter party, the Christian Social Union (CSU), will win a clear victory. That means Mr Merz should take over as chancellor once he builds a coalition, probably in April or May. As for the AfD, its forecast share of 20% puts it on track to double its seat tally. Yet it is blocked from government by the “firewall” other parties maintain around it. But Mr Merz cannot sleep easy. An in- teraction between Germany's electoral rules, the anti-AfD firewall and the frag- mentation of the vote has led to a curious situation in which tiny changes could have huge consequences for government forma- tion. In most cases parties must win 5% of the national vote to enter the Bundestag. Three sit close to that threshold: the Free Democrats (FDP), a pro-business outfit ejected from government by Mr Scholz in November; the Sahra Wagenknecht Alli- ance (BSW), a left-conservative, pro-Russia outfit that broke away from Die Linke a year ago; and Die Linke itself. So the Bundestag that emerges could have anything between four and seven par- ties (taking the CDU and CSU as one, see chart 2). The higher that number, the fewer seats for the larger parties and the trickier the coalition options for the CDU/CSU. Mr Merz will be watching the results for the small parties as closely as his own. If none of them qualifies—unlikely, giv- en Die Linke’s uptick—Mr Merz will al- most certainly have a choice between Mr Scholz’s Social Democrats (SPD) or the | | Much noise, less motion Germany, voting intention in federal election, % Main parties Median forecast seats in the Bundestag”, 2025 2021 22 23 24 29 *316 needed fora majority ‘5% threshold to win seats Sources: Wahlrecht.de: [he Economist Greens as coalition partner, as he also may if just one minnow makes it. Our election- forecast model shows a 22% chance he will find himself in this happy situation. With five parties in parliament, Mr Merz’s only viable two-way coalition may be with the SPD. A six-party Bundestag sharply in- creases the chance that three parties will be needed. And if all three tiddlers make it, a two-party coalition will be near-impossi- ble. So complex is the situation that tacti- cal voting to boost the chances of a partic- ular outcome, often favoured by sophisti- cated voters, is like “playing 3D chess”, says Frieder Schmid at YouGoyv, a pollster. Worryingly for Mr Merz, the Die Linke surge, and a smaller bump for the FDP, are The more, the messier Germany's election Possible coalitions’, share of simulations, % February 19th 2025 50 Three parties es — needed 40 ® CDU/CSU-Greens 30 m CDU/CSU-SPD Bi Either CDU/CSU- eee 20) SPD or CDU/CSU- Greens 4 5 6 ri Number of parties in the Bundestag The Economist February 22nd 2025 squeezing his options. Our model finds a 37% (and growing) chance that neither a pairing of the CDU/CSU with the SPD (a “grand coalition”) nor the Greens will wina majority. With the AfD out of bounds, that means Mr Merz would need two partners: either the SPD and the Greens in a so- called Kenya coalition, or a variation with the FDP, should it qualify. (The CDU/CSU also shuns Die Linke and the BSW.) This might also apply if a two-party coalition would have only a tiny majority. “If that happens,” sighs a CDU official, “we re dead.’ An ideologically messy three- party coalition could be a nightmare for Mr Merz’s hopes of restoring stability to Ger- man governance and predictability for Germany's EU partners. Voters shudder at the prospect of another governing throu- ple, having despaired at the endless bicker- ing of the SPD-Green-FDP “traffic-light” coalition. A second worry is that a three- way government could leave the AfD as the only meaningful opposition. A third is of a one-third “blocking minority” in the Bun- destag that could thwart plans to relax Germany’s constitutional debt brake (see Finance & economics section). Germans will greet the next govern- ment with the stoniest of scepticism. Thor- sten Faas, a political scientist at the Free University in Berlin, notes that this is the first election since records began in which every leading candidate has a negative ap- proval rating (see chart 3). Just 25% of Ger- mans say they are satisfied with Mr Merz. Having briefly harboured hopes of an absolute majority, his party is now on track for the second-worst result in its history. The SPD, his likeliest (and Germans’ pre- ferred) partner, will certainly chalk up its worst-ever score. A stagnant economy, a wave of deadly attacks by asylum-seekers and the chaos unleashed by the Trump ad- ministration have stoked the unease. [here is a fog of uncertainty surrounding the post-election outcome. But that Mr Merz will enjoy no honeymoon is a dead cert. & Popularity of candidates for chancellor bal Rating’ ona scale eSPD ecCDU/CSU @Greens of -5to5 a et 3 © . se - & ry bo ° 1 | AP . _ | eo $ ¢ 1990 94 98 200205 09 13 17 21 25 Election year “omallest number of parties needed tor a majority. Based on [he Economist's election model, which runs simulations based on polls to forecast seat totals. | he CDU/CSU, SPD, AfD and Greens quality in all circumstances. ‘Based on the last Politbarometer survey belore the lederal election Sources: Politbarometer, Ansgar Wolsing and Thorsten | aas; [he [ conomisi The Economist February 22nd 2025
