METADATA:
Source: Economist
Date: 2025-02-25
Categories: Inflation
Title: PLEASE ENJOY CHAMPAGNE RESPONSIBLY The world this week Politics America held its first meeting wi...
ID: 169

CONTENT:
PLEASE ENJOY CHAMPAGNE RESPONSIBLY The world this week Politics America held its first meeting with Russia about bringing the war in Ukraine to an end. The talks between Marco Rubio, America’s secretary of state, and Sergei Lavrov, Russia's foreign minister, took place in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia's capital, without any representatives from Ukraine or the European Union. The State Department said both sides had laid “the groundwork for future co-operation’. Donald |rump’s rapprochement with Russia has stunned Europe, but a hastily convened emergency summit in Paris revealed divi- sions on the next steps to take. Sir Keir Starmer, Britain’s prime minister, offered to send British troops to Ukraine as part of a peacekeeping force. The acrimony between Mr Trump and Volodymyr Zelen- sky intensified, after the Amer- ican president blamed Ukraine for starting the war. “I would like to have more truth with the Trump team,’ retorted Mr Zelensky. Mr Trump then called Mr Zelensky a dictator who should call an election. With friends like these The transatlantic alliance was also put under strain following a speech by J.D. Vance, Amer- ica’s vice-president, at the Munich Security Conference. Mr Vance delivered a ferocious attack on European democ- racy, accusing Europe of backtracking on free speech, promoting mass immigration and marginalising dissenting voices on the right. Adding to the sense of political uncertainty in Europe, Germa- ny prepared to vote in an elec- tion on February 23rd that is expected to be won bythe Christian Democrats, who could take months to form a coalition. Immigration is a big issue. An Afghan asylum- seeker killed a mother and her daughter when he rammed a car into acrowd a mile from the site of the Munich conference. Meanwhile, in Austria a Syrian asylum-seeker stabbed a 14- year-old boy to death. Pope Francis was admitted to hospital with double pneumo- nia. [he Vatican cancelled the 88-year-old pontiff’s engage- ments and described his condi- tion as “complex’. Israeli forces withdrew from much of southern Lebanon but remained in five locations along the border. [he Leba- nese government said this was a violation of the ceasefire agreement that in November ended 13 months of fighting between Israel and Hizbullah. Israel said it would keep its troops there until the Lebanese army was in place to monitor the areas dominated by the Shia militia. More Israeli hostages were freed from Gaza under the ceasefire agreed to by Israel and Hamas. [he militant group also released the bodies of four Israelis it had held captive, including siblings who were aged four and nine months when they were abducted. Three weeks after taking Goma, eastern Congo's biggest city, M23 captured Bukavu, the region’s second-biggest. The Congolese army put up little resistance to the rebel group, which is backed by Rwanda. The government of the Demo- cratic Republic of Congo in Kinshasa, 1,500km (930 miles) away, has in effect lost control of the eastern part of the coun- try, which looks ever more likely to become the site of yet another full-blown war. South Africa’s government of national unity postponed the release of a budget at the last minute following a dispute over a proposed tax increase. It will now be presented on March 12th. It was the first time a budget has been postponed since the end of the apartheid regime in 1994 and is a sign of the pressure being put on the ruling African National Con- gress by the Democratic Alli- ance, its main coalition partner. Kathy Hochul, the governor of New York state, held talks with political leaders on whether to remove Eric Adams as mayor of New York City. The federal Department of Justice recently directed New York federal prosecutors to shelve corrup- tion charges filed against Mr Adams in an apparent quid pro quo forhis support of Mr Trump’s immigration agenda. Mr Adams denies this and any wrongdoing. Several prosecu- tors and city officials resigned in protest. No governor has ever removed a New York City mayor from office. The Trump administration continued its war against diversity, equity and inclusion policies, as the Education Department told schools not to use race as criteria for employ- ing staff, awarding scholar- ships or treating pupils differ- ently. “Put simply, educational institutions may neither sep- arate or segregate students based on race,” the depart- ment’s memo warned. South Korea’s disgraced presi- dent, Yoon Suk Yeol, appeared in court at his criminal trial for insurrection following his brief imposition of martial law in December. His lawyers asked that he be released from deten- tion. Mr Yoon’s separate impeachment trial is being conducted by the Constitu- tional Court, and is heading towards a conclusion. Pravind Jugnauth, who was prime minister of Mauritius until losing an election last November, was arrested on money-laundering charges. He denies all the claims against him. Mr Jugnauth negotiated a controversial deal last October The Economist February 22nd 2025 in which Britain will cede control to Mauritius of the Chagos Islands, which house a Strategically important military base in the Indian Ocean. Brazil’s attorney-general filed charges against Jair Bolsonaro, a former far-right president, and 33 others, claiming that they tried to stage a coup in 2022 to keep Mr Bolsonaro in power after he lost an election. Hours later, Donald Irump’s media group sued a prominent judge on Brazil's Supreme Court over alleged censorship. That judge, Alexandre de Moraes, will rule on whether Mr Bolsonaro, an admirer of Mr Trump, will go to jail. Fools rush in... President Javier Milei of Argentina faced criminal complaints alleging fraud and talk of impeachment after he promoted a risky cryptocur- rency, $LIBRA. [he memecoin’s value surged as supporters bought it, but then collapsed amid allegations of insider trading. Meanwhile, Mr Milei went to Washington to discuss a loan with the IMF. A poll by the Angus Reid Institute suggested that if Mark Carney wins the Liberal Party's leadership race in Canada, and thus becomes prime minister, the Liberals will surge to within three points of the Conservatives. Mr Carney, a former governor of the central banks of both Cana- da and Britain, ties with the Conservative leader, Pierre Poilievre, on economic issues. The poll indicates the Liberals will fare less well if Chrystia Freeland, a former minister of finance, becomes leader. The Economist February 22nd 2025 The world this week Business i = China’s leader, Xi Jinping, held a rare public meeting with the country's leading tech entrepreneurs, underscoring the government’s change of heart towards an industry it had cracked down ona few years ago. Mr Xi was seen shaking hands with Jack Ma, the founder of Alibaba, who at one stage moved to Japan after criticising Chinese regulators. Liang Wenfeng, the founder of DeepSeek, was also there, as were bosses from Tencent, BYD and CATL. Baidu’s share price plunged when its chief exec- utive was not spotted at the gathering. With China's econ- omy struggling and the rivalry with America heating up, Mr Xi has become more favourable towards private enterprise. Meanwhile, South Korea banned further downloads of DeepSeek’s generative artifi- cial-intelligence app, claiming it doesn't comply with the country’s data-privacy laws. Apple and Google made Tik- Tok available for download again at their app stores in America. TikTok was briefly unavailable in the country at the tail end of the Biden admin- istration, which blocked it over claims the Chinese-owned platform poses a threat to data privacy. It was restored for users who already had the app ahead of the inauguration of Donald Irump, who gave Tiklok a reprieve while a sol- ution is found to its ownership. Microsoft unveiled its Mayjoranai chip, which it claims would allow quantum computers capable of solving “industrial-scale problems” to be developed within years, rather than decades. The new chip is based on a substance Microsoft calls a “topoconduc- tor’, one of aclass of materials known as topological super- conductors. [he company claims that its topoconductor can produce more reliable and scalable qubits based on Majorana fermions, subatomic particles with intriguing quantum properties. Experts said it would take time to evalu- ate its impact. Mr [rump threatened to im- pose tariffs of 25% or higher on allimports of cars, chips and pharmaceuticals to the United States, the latest salvo in his trade war. Like most pro- nouncements from the presi- dent, it was unclear whether his threat was real ora tactic to attain lower duties for Amer- ican exports. He has also pro- posed “reciprocal” tariffs to match the tax rates that other countries charge on imports. Inflationary pressures In Britain the government's imposition of a value-added tax on private-school fees was cited as a contributing element to a surprise surge in inflation. Asmaller-than-expected de- crease in air fares was another factor. The annual rate jumped Pe Se ee ee = cee 5 oe 7 ale ats ale eee ag ata aa i Th ed bg ON al a Fo - vf) Par ale! ee ; ‘< _ i. - 1 CANNOT BELIEVE THAT HE IS NEGOTIATING THE FUTURE OF UKRAINE WITH an THAT BULLYING Zz UNTRUSTWORTHY Sus, DEMAGOGUE // 2 ai 3 Z 5 i i 5 = = | ¢ = - - = if = = = = = = fs] = Ps = F = | : = = a = | | = cs 5 5 = = = & & © = = e ek, de eit to 3% in January from 2.5% in December, the highest level in ten months. Core inflation, which excludes volatile food and energy prices, rose to 3.7% from 3.2%. [he Bank of Eng- land said recently that it ex- pected inflation to rise, and it remained cautious about fur- ther cuts to interest rates. Australia’s central bank lowered its benchmark interest rate to 4.1%, the first cut since November 2020. The country’s annual inflation rate has fallen to 2.4%, within the bank’s target range. Astrong rebound in business investment helped boost Japan’s economy in the last three months of 2024. GDP expanded by 2.8% at an annu- alised rate in the quarter. In another blow to the London stock Exchange, Glencore’s chief executive, Gary Nagle, said the commodities firm was considering whether to delist its shares and trade on another bourse, possibly New York. It is one of the LSE’s most valuable companies. Last year 88 com- panies left or transferred their primary listing from the LSE, the most since the financial crisis of 2007-09. Rio Tinto, Fle Pee ee OAT Aree | aie tite Ed mi Stith Mh. th ee 1, =. rm 2 : “1 Qh meanwhile, urged shareholders to reject a proposal to delist its shares in London and unify them in Australia. The High Court in London gave its approval to [Thames Water’s request to borrow up to £3bn ($3.8bn), as the embat- tled utility tries to avoid in- solvency. [hames Water, the biggest provider of water and sewage services in Britain, is carrying a huge debt load and still faces legal challenges from junior creditors. KKR, a private- equity firm, has reportedly submitted a bid to take a major- ity stake in the company. Now that’s a zinger Kentucky is no longer finger- lickin’ good enough for KFC, which is moving its head- quarters from Louisville to Plano, lexas. [he decision was taken by Yum Brands, which owns KFC and wants it to share offices in Plano with Pizza Hut, another fast-food chain in its portfolio. Kentucky Fried Chicken started out in the Bluegrass State in the 1930s, when Colonel Harland Sanders developed his famous “secret recipe’. [o placate Kentuckians outraged by the move, KFC has promised to build a flagship restaurant in Louisville. iF PRACTICE MAKEd PERFELT,
