METADATA:
Source: Economist
Date: 2025-02-25
Categories: Inflation, Stocks
Title: IGA SWIATEK DIGITAL-FIRST | CLOUD-FIRST | AI-FIRST = Whether sports or business champions evolve ...
ID: 170

CONTENT:
IGA SWIATEK DIGITAL-FIRST | CLOUD-FIRST | AI-FIRST = Whether sports or business champions evolve to The Economist February 22nd 2025 Leaders T1 The Economist The would-be king America is fated to wage a titanic struggle over the power of the president ie HIS FIRST whirlwind month in office, Donald Trump has made his base exultant and left his opponents reeling. With his blitzkrieg, Mr ‘Trump is trying to turn the presidency into the dominant branch of government. The question is how far his campaign goes before he is checked—if he is checked— and where it will leave the republic. That fight is over the fundamental character of America. The president says he is clearing out waste, fraud and abuse from the bureaucracy, but his opponents warn he is wrecking the federal government. He says he is bringing peace to the world and prosperity at home; they warn he is shattering the alliances that keep the West strong. He says he is making America gteat again; they warn he is frogmarching the country into a constitutional crisis, or even a Trumpian autocracy. Mr Trump’s every act demonstrates his belief that power is vested in him personally, and affirms that he is bent on amass- ing more. Ignoring the legislature, he is governing by decree. He asserts that the president can withhold money allocated by Congress. The framers had expected that branch of govern- ment to be the most powertul but this would diminish it. Be- cause some of Mr Trump’s 70 or So executive orders are, on the face of it, brazenly unconstitutional, he also appears to be seeking a trial of strength with the judiciary (see Briefing). Everywhere you look, it is the same. Gov- ernment departments are being thrown into confusion, partly to demonstrate Mr Trump’s personal authority over them. The Washington Post has reported that candidates for senior jobs in intelligence and law enforcement have been asked whether they endorse Mr ‘Trump’s false claim that he won the election in 2020. Mr Trump has also swept away post-Water- gate safeguards designed to keep the Department of Justice at arm’s length from politics. One of the department’s first acts has been to ask prosecutors to drop corruption charges against Eric Adams, the mayor of New York City—though only for as long as he does what Mr Trump demands. In foreign affairs, too, Mr Trump chafes to be rid of the obli- gations he inherited. America is quitting multinational outfits, such as the World Health Organisation, partly because they impose burdens. He has used the threat of tariffs to gain influ- ence over foreign governments—this also empowers him at home by creating supplicants seeking relief. As he breaks a ta- boo by embracing Russia, he looks as if he is treating his alli- ance with Europe as something to bargain away (see Leader). You hear that such maximalist presidential ambitions are unprecedented. In fact, Mr Trump is hardly the first to want to dominate the republic. Franklin Roosevelt signed over 3,700 executive orders. In forcing through the New Deal, he spent six months trying to pack the Supreme Court. Power has been ebbing from Congress to the White House for the past three decades. There is a long Republican tradition calling for the restoration of true democracy by taking back power from bu- reaucrats. America has always been wary of being tied down by UN-type institutions. Moreover, Mr Trump is entitled to set new goals for the bu- reaucracy. He also has a duty to make it honest and efficient. Bill Clinton’s drive to streamline government cut Over 420,000 federal jobs. As we argued last week, departments need shak- ing up—including the Pentagon, which is failing to prepare America for 21st-century wartare. And Mr Trump has every rea- son to seek peace in Europe and the Middle East, both to save lives and to tree America to focus on its rivalry with China. However, government is about means as well as ends, and here Mr ‘Trump’s critics are right to be alarmed. Bureaucratic shock therapy will bring a lot of harm before it does any good. subjecting public servants to purity and loyalty tests will poli- ticise the technicalities of running a complex modern econ- omy. Subordinating justice to presidential whim corrupts the rule of law. His peace plan for Gaza would force Palestinians into permanent exile, a denial of their most fundamental rights. In each case Mr Trump has displayed wanton cruelty. Unfortunately, that is also a way of acquiring power—because humiliation embodies the idea that might is right. And that belief is where Mr ‘Trump will hit trouble. Take the courts. Just now, the president is mostly getting his way. Yet in a federal system where states have rights, and most citizens and investors still believe in the rule of law, the courts are po- werful, even if they move slowly. The Supreme Court may give Mr Trump some of what he wants, but surely not all. Characteristically, he has pledged to abide by legal rulings, and then quoted Napoleon, saying: “He who saves his Country does not violate any Law.’ Defiance of the Supreme Court would trig- ger a constitutional crisis and a second fight among officials, voters and financial markets over the future of the republic. New York is already seeing an inkling of this as federal prosecutors and New York officials resign in protest over the deal with Mr Adams (see Lexington). Even without a constitutional crisis, reality will begin to bite. Whatever Mr Trump asserts, tariffs and budget deficits do in fact create inflation. The markets know that well, just as they know how businesses will suffer if the justice system be- comes a vehicle for cronyism and retribution. America’s bu- reaucracy provides vital services; if it breaks, citizens will go without. Americans may dislike the idea of aid, but what will they feel if they see little children being made to suffer in their name? Perhaps the voters currently endorsing Mr ‘Trump’s first month will not care about any of that. But do not bet on it. In foreign policy Mr Trump is free to try to remake the world, and America may suffer a disastrous loss of influence to China and Russia before anyone can stop him. At home, by contrast, a fight is at hand and the president is still far from overturning America’s constitutional order. Mr Trump, being who he is, will contemplate any extreme. But in these tempes- tuous times Republicans should remember the virtue of re- straint—out of self-interest as well as patriotism. Should a Democratic president win office, the powers Mr Trump seizes could be used against them. & 12 Leaders The Economist February 22nd 2025 Trump and the world Europe's worst nightmare The continent must start to prepare for life without the transatlantic alliance Th PAST week has been the bleakest in Europe since the fall of the Iron Curtain. Ukraine is being sold out, Russia is being rehabilitated and, under Donald Trump, America can no longer be counted on to come to Europe’s aid in wartime. The implications for Europe’s security are grave, but they have yet to sink in to the continent’s leaders and people. The old world needs a crash course on how to wield hard power in a lawless era, or it will fall victim to the new world disorder. speaking in Munich last week, America’s vice-president, J.D. Vance, offered a taste of how the home of fine wines, clas- sical architecture and welfare cheques faces humiliation, when he ridiculed Europe as decadent and undemocratic. Its leaders have been excluded from peace talks between the White House and the Kremlin, which began officially in Riyadh on February 18th. However, the unfolding crisis goes far beyond insults and diplomatic niceties. Mr ‘Trump appears ready to walk away from Ukraine which he falsely blames for the war. Calling its president, Volodymyr Zelensky, a “dictator”, Mr Trump warned him that he had “bet- ter move fast or he is not going to have a country left”. America may try to impose an unstable ceasefire on Ukraine with only weak security guarantees that limit its right to re-arm. That is bad enough, but Europe’s worst nightmare is bigger than Ukraine. Mr ‘Trump intends to rehabili- tate Russia’s president, Vladimir Putin, ditch- ing a long-standing policy to isolate him. Without any obvious geopolitical benefit to America, he is angling to restore diplomatic relations. He may soon be feted at a glitzy summit. Offering up concessions in Riyadh, Marco Rubio, the secretary of state, gushed about co-operation and “historic economic and investment opportunities”. (Irump ‘Tower Red Square?) Mr ‘Irump’s shakedown of Europe and pandering to Russia have cast doubt on America’s commitment to defend NATO come what may. One fear is that American forces could be cut, or pulled back to leave eastern Europe exposed. The problem is not that Uncle Sam’s priorities lie in Asia (See International section), The problem is that if Europe comes under Russian attack and seeks American help, Mr Trump’s first and deepest instinct will be to ask what is in it for him. He is due to meet Britain’s prime minister and the French president next week. But don’t take that as a signal that this is just clever talk from a dealmaker: Mr Trump’s readiness to trade everything away is precisely the problem. NATO’s deterrence rests on the certain- ty that if one member is attacked the rest will come to its aid. Doubt is corrosive, it leaves Europe dangerously exposed. Let us spell out the reality Europe faces. It is an indebted, ageing continent that is barely erowing and cannot defend it- self or project hard power. Global rules on trade, borders, de- fence and technology are being ripped up. If Russia invades one of the Baltic states, or uses disinformation and sabotage to destabilise eastern Europe, what precisely will Europe do? So far the answer is to curl up in a defensive crouch. After the MAGA onslaught, a group of European leaders hastily met in Paris on February 17th but managed only to advertise their differences. Three years after Russia’s invasion Europe has not raised military spending nearly enough. It is trapped in an ob- solete worldview of multilateral treaties and shared values. Europe’s urgent task is to relearn how to acquire and wield power; it must be prepared to confront adversaries and some- times friends, including America, which will still be there after Mr ‘Trump. Instead of cowering, it needs an objective appraisal of the threat. Russia is a war machine with a vast arsenal of nu- clear weapons, but also a medium-size economy that is declin- ing (see Europe section). Europe also needs an equally objec- tive appraisal of its own strengths: although it is slow-growing, Europe is still an economic and trade giant with great reserves of talent and knowledge. It needs to use those resources to re- invigorate growth, rearm and assert itself. What does that mean? In the short term Europe needs a single envoy to talk to Ukraine, Russia and America. It should tighten its embargo on Russia even if America loosens sanc- tions. Europe should unilaterally exploit the €210bn ($220bn) of Russian cash frozen in European banks. That would pay for Ukraine to fight on or rearm as American funds dwindle. In the medium term a huge defence mobilisation is needed. If Europe cannot rely on America, it must have its own heavy- lift aircraft, logistics, surveillance: the lot. Talks must start on how Britain and France can use their nuclear weapons to shield the continent. All this will cost a fortune. Defence spending will need to rise to the 4-5% of GDP that was normal during the cold war. Higher defence outlays, particularly if some are spent on American weapons, may persuade Mr Trump to stay in NATO, but the assumption now must be that American support is not guaranteed. Paying for this rearmament will take a fiscal revolution. The new target will require extra spending of upwards of €300bn a year. Some of this must come from issuing more common and individual debt. In order to bear that, Europe will have to cut welfare: Angela Merkel, Germany’s former chancellor, used to say that Europe accounted for 7% of the world’s population, 25% of its GDP but 50% of its social spending. To raise growth, Europe must press ahead with obvious but endlessly delayed reforms, from unifying capital markets to deregulation. A new dream for an old continent The nightmare that Mr Putin and now Mr Trump have con- jured up may ultimately force Europe to change how it organis- es itself. Its pedantic obsession with process and groupings, including the euro zone, the EU and many others, slows deci- Sion-making, omits key actors like Britain and gives weight to countries such as Hungary, which want to sabotage European defence, or Spain that is hesitant to rearm. All this sounds outlandish. NATO has been the world’s most successful alliance: its disappearance is hard to imagine. But the old things have passed away; all things have become new. Europe needs to face up to that before it is too late. & The Economist February 22nd 2025 Leaders 13 Trade At the president’s pleasure Reciprocal tariffs sound fair but spell chaos for global commerce HAT HAPPENS when you ditch the principles that under- \ V pinned global trade for three-quarters of a century? Do- nald Trump hopes to find out. He wants to levy “reciprocal” ta- tiffs, which match the duties American exports face abroad, plus charges to offset any policy he deems unfair. A stable multilateral trade system which has, for all its flaws, fostered miraculous rises in global prosperity would give way to arbi- trary judgements made in the Oval Office (see Free exchange). After the second world war America built a system of global commerce that sought to treat countries equally. The operat- ing principle was the “most-favoured nation” (MFN) clause, which means that members of the World Trade Organisation must levy the same charge on a given good, no matter where it comes from (except within deep free-trade agreements, such as that be- 0 5 tween America, Canada and Mexico). As a India consequence, in any given market, American "na firms trade on the same terms as most other = aa foreigners. This acts asabrake against lurches Japan towards protectionism or lobbying for special — us favours, because changing tarifts for one trad- ing partner would mean changing them for everyone. MEN has led to asymmetries. Countries can protect power- ful producers, so long as the external tariff is uniform. It also permits imbalances in average tariffs, because countries differ in their willingness to liberalise. America levied a simple aver- age tariff of just 3.3% in 2023, lower than 5% in the EU and 3.8% in Britain. Poor countries tend to have higher levies. That does not mean America is a victim. Its consumers ben- efit from cheap imports and its companies from cheap parts. In the 20th century free trade increased global stability. Still, perhaps reciprocity could nudge others to lower trade barriers, in order to increase their own access to America’s market. Average effective tariff rates, 2023, % The problem, however, is that Mr Trump’s policy would be fiddly, arbitrary and more likely to ratchet up instead of down. The administrative effort needed to implement it would range from etuelling to gargantuan, depending on how reciprocity was defined. At the very least, for each good a single tariff would be replaced by hundreds of possible bilateral levies and things would get fiendishly complex for products with supply chains spanning many countries. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries America pursued reciprocity only to conclude that constant bargaining was cumbersome and unpredictable, leading Conegtess to adopt unconditional MEN in 1922. The unpredictability would be agetavated by Mr Trump’s desire to be the judge of whether a country’s trading practices are unfair. His order cited value-added taxes (VATS), which are levied in most rich countries, as one such discrimina- tion; America has no VAT, only state and local Sales taxes. Yet VATS are fair, because they ap- ply equally to imports and local goods. Including VATs in reciprocity would lead to hefty increases in tariffs. Goldman Sachs, a bank, says that if America adopted only mirror-image tariffs without retaliation, its levies would rise by an average of two percentage points. Many European VAT rates exceed 20%. But there probably will be retaliation, so tariffs are likely to spiral upwards. The mere possibility of that will deter busi- nesses from relying on trade. Because Mr Trump’s reasoning on VAT is nonsense, who knows what grievance he will dream up next? And reciprocity is only one component of his plans. If he also whacks duties of 25% on some goods, as he continually threatens to, you have a recipe for retaliation and a full-scale trade war. That might suit Mr Trump, but it would be a blow to the American and world economies alike. & 10 15 20) African youth Harness the hustle In an ageing world, young Africans are becoming more important. How to ensure they fulfil their potential OME GENERATIONS come of age just as their countries rise S economically Think of America’s baby boomers, China’s millennials and perhaps India’s Generation Z. But there is an- other globally significant cohort that receives far less atten- tion—what this week we call Africa’s “generation hustle”. The sheer size of this group means that they will shape the world (See Middle East & Africa section). Over 60% of people living in sub-Saharan Africa are younger than 25. By 2030 half of all new entrants to the “global labour force” will come from sub-Saharan Africa. By 2050 Africa will have more young peo- ple than anywhere else. As countries in Europe, Asia and the Americas age and shrink, Affica’s population will continue to grow and remain youthful. Understanding this generation and their adversities is an urgent matter not just for Africans, but for everyone. They are likely to surprise you. Young Africans are better educated and, thanks to the internet and social media, more aware of the wider world than their parents were. Unlike previ- ous generations, they have no memories of colonialism. They combine an individualistic, enterprising outlook with piety and a streak of social conservatism. Much of that is bound up in a turn to Pentecostalism and its prosperity gospel, which highlights prayer as a path to material success. For prosperity is what this generation lacks. They are frus- trated with their shortage of opportunities. After a promising burst of activity in the 2000s, much of Africa has since endured >> 14 Leaders over a decade of weak or non-existent growth. Stagnating economies are not creating enough good jobs to fulfil young people’s aspirations. Young Africans have responded by finding creative ways to make ends meet. Some combine formal work with side hustles. Others juggle multiple gigs in the informal economy. But most would still much rather have a proper job. Their lack of prospects is a disaster for a continent that badly needs its young people to realise their economic poten- tial. Apart from causing individual anguish, it is also a risk to democratic stability. Young people on the continent are scepti- cal of the political systems that have failed them. Recent prot- ests in Kenya, Nigeria and Mozambique have shown that their dissatisfaction can threaten governments. Frustration at their lack of opportunities and at politicians’ indifference to their plight is tempting some members of generation hustle to put their hope in strongmen and authoritarian politics. The threat will spill across borders. More than half of young Africans say that they want to leave their own countries and make their fortunes abroad. For African governments and the The Economist February 22nd 2025 world at large, it is therefore important to harness the hustle. Some of the necessary changes in attitude are already in place in rich countries, where young Africans are making their mark. Their continent’s cinema and music are taking the world by storm. Restaurateurs have won Michelin stars in London. Entrepreneurs have enriched the startup scene in Europe and America. Done right, emigration will help host countries arrest demographic decline and fix labour shortages. Host societies will also benefit from young Africans’ enterprise, just as the diaspora will channel money, skills and ideas back to Africa. Home is where the start is Yet the most important changes should happen at home. As we argued in our special report earlier this year, African gov- ermments need to reform their economies. If they want to create more opportunities for ambitious youngsters they need to focus on growth. Young Africans already know that they need prosperity to achieve their dreams. They have the can-do mindset to do their part. Itis up to their governments to enable them to thrive. & Tech in China Conditional love Xi Jinping wants the private sector to thrive again—within limits UCCESSFUL STOCKPICKERS need a particular set of skills—the ability to parse financial statements, decipher corporate strategies and read the market’s mood. In China they must also interpret Xi Jinping’s state of mind. Five years ago regulators began a sweeping crackdown on tech that drove Jack Ma, the founder of Alibaba, from public life. It also erased some $2trn in market value, as foreign investors fled Chinese stocks and the country’s private entrepreneurs lost faith in the Communist Party’s commitment to their success. Now the mood is shifting back. On February 17th, when Mr Xi invited a group of tech bosses to arare “symposium”, Mr Ma was seated in the front row. The high-profile meeting sends a signal that the party wants private enterprise to thrive again—but within limits. The symposium acknowledged that entre- preneurs have much to contribute to China’s economy. At the symposium Mr Xi shook the hand of DeepSeek’s founder, Liang Wenfeng. China’s rulers seem as impressed as everyone else by the success of the scrappy startup from Zhejiang province, which has rivalled the world’s best artificial-intellizence (AI) models at a fraction of the cost (see China section). DeepSeek’s example has injected some liveliness into the stockmarket, lifting the share prices of tech firms listed in Hong Kong by 23% in the past month. The stocks of Alibaba and Tencent have surged in expectation of healthy Al-related demand (see Business section). The party wants to jump on this bandwagon and keep it rolling. China is still suffering from a long property slump, de- pressed consumer confidence and a shortfall of spending. It is stuck in its longest spell of deflation since the Asian financial crisis over a quarter of a century ago. A tech-fuelled stockmark- Share prices, Feb 14th 2025=100 Average of 11 listed companies in front row of Xi’s symposium dep Fe ail yh Ue BE ale ae: et rally could provide some of the stimulus that has so far been lacking: a little greed to temper the anxiety. Yet the party may also be warming to private enterprise be- cause it now has less to fear from it. Five years ago, ambitious tech firms were busy amassing vast troves of data on citizens’ spending, borrowing and travel patterns. They knew more about the Chinese people than the party did. At the same time, they were transcending their home country, eagerly courting foreign investors and regulators. Didi, a ride-hailing giant, was so determined to list in New York on schedule in 2021 that it waved aside the misgivings of China’s data regulator. Things are different now. China has tightened rules for overseas listings, bolstered the influence of party committees within private companies 105 and imposed new laws on data collection and oo ~=—-—stransfer. At the same time, America’s hostility to Chinese companies has driven them closer to their home market and government. If for- e5 eigners think these firms are “uninvestible”, they must raise money at home. If America de- nies China access to vital inputs such as high- end computer chips, even private firms will join the party’s mission to achieve self-reliance. Mr Xi’s Symposium was not an empty gesture. The party is eenuinely keen to revive the spirits of entrepreneurs and re- move some bureaucratic obstacles to their progtess. Yet Mr Xi also cautioned the tech bosses to “remember their roots” as they pursue success. His vision for the private sector is not serving shareholders but promoting “Chinese-style modernisation”. The party is happy, in other words, to offer support. But what it will not of- fer is freedom. Its embrace of the private sector is conditional on private capital alieninge with the party’s goals. & Hang Seng 95 Tech Index j The Economist February 22nd 2025 Letters Heathrow’s third runway To cope with an expanded Heathrow, steeper approaches by aircraft sound like a good idea, and they can theoretically be flown more efficiently and quietly (“Take-off”, February 1st). In practice, though, pilots often respond to a steeper approach by controlling their speed by using the speed brakes, which whistle. You claimed that 40% of air pollution at Heathrowcomes from ground vehicles. Maybe, but an A380 uses around 70kg of fuel per minute to taxi, an equivalent fuel burn to around 1,000 cars driving at 3omph (48kph). Fora highly efficient A320Neo the equivalent would still be overioo cars. [here are often 15-20 aircraft moving around the airfield at any time. The biggest question comes down to design. Why does the runway need to be built over the London orbital motorway at one of the most critical points of Britain’s national road infrastructure? As a resident in Buckinghamshire who has watched a gold-plated high- speed rail project being tun- nelled through the Chilterns at exorbitant cost, I wonder if we Te about to make the same mistake with Heathrow. Near- by Luton airport gets by with a 2,162 metre (7,093 feet) runway, a length that would fit without the complexity of building over a major motorway and be suitable for the significant proportion of short-haul aircraft operating routes from Heathrow. As always there are trade- offs. On a shorter runway aircraft will use more thrust to take off generating more noise. But recent national infrastruc- ture history would surely sug- gest that simpler, quicker and cheaper is the way to go. CAPTAIN GEOFF WILLIAMS Gerrards C7 oss, Buckinghamshire It is understandable that Heathrow and other British airports in private ownership would wish to increase pas- senger numbers, revenues and profits. But this is not in the national interest in an era of decarbonisation. The crucial fact is that most air travel is for leisure. Even at Heathrow, only around a quar- ter of passengers are travelling on business. There is therefore ample opportunity for business travel to increase, displacing leisure travellers to other Lon- don airports with spare capac- ity, and beyond. This will happen through market forces because business travellers will pay a premium for the advantages of Heath- row. Eventually, all spare capacity at airports would be taken, and then the lowest value flights would be priced off, such as the weekend jaunts by stag and hen parties to convivial continental cities. DAVID METZ Honorary professor Centre for Iransport Studies University College London Mexico’s view of trade “Dealing with Donald” (Febru- ary 8th) mentioned Mexico’s vision of a renewed opportuni- ty for North America to deepen trade and economic integta- tion. lake the trade in interme- diate goods, where the average Mexican export is 40% made in the United States and the average Canadian export is 25% made in the US. As emerging economic competitors challenge estab- lished trade relationships worldwide, it is imperative that we present a unified front. The threat is not only to our industries and businesses but also to the economic security of our households. The scale of economic competition today is unlike anything we have faced before. The rapid rise of Al and other transformative technologies raises the stakes even higher. By complementing our econo- mies and ensuring that markets function efficiently, we can capitalise on our comparative advantages, boosting produc- tivity and unlocking higher levels of shared prosperity. Aco-ordinated and compet- itive North America is the best path forward, ensuring oppor- 15 LETTERS ARE WELCOME AND SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO THE EDITOR AT: THE ECONOMIST, TITE ADELPIT] BUILDING, +11 JOITIN ADAM STREET, LONDON WC2N 61HT EMAIL: LETTERS@BROCONOMIST.COM. MORE LETTERS AVAILABLE AT! RCONOMIST.COM/LETTERS tunity and stability for all our citizens.
